Adaptive Feature Fusion for Cooperative Perception using LiDAR Point Clouds
Donghao Qiao, Farhana Zulkernine
Queen’s University, Canada
{d.qiao, farhana.zulkernine }@queensu.ca
Abstract
Cooperative perception allows a Connected Autonomous
Vehicle (CAV) to interact with the other CAVs in the vicin-
ity to enhance perception of surrounding objects to in-
crease safety and reliability. It can compensate for the lim-
itations of the conventional vehicular perception such as
blind spots, low resolution, and weather effects. An effec-
tive feature fusion model for the intermediate fusion meth-
ods of cooperative perception can improve feature selec-
tion and information aggregation to further enhance the
perception accuracy. We propose adaptive feature fusion
models with trainable feature selection modules. One of
our proposed models Spatial-wise Adaptive feature Fusion
(S-AdaFusion) outperforms all other State-of-the-Arts (SO-
TAs) on two subsets of the OPV2V dataset: Default CARLA
Towns for vehicle detection and the Culver City for domain
adaptation. In addition, previous studies have only tested
cooperative perception for vehicle detection. A pedestrian,
however, is much more likely to be seriously injured in a
traffic accident. We evaluate the performance of cooper-
ative perception for both vehicle and pedestrian detection
using the CODD dataset. Our architecture achieves higher
Average Precision (AP) than other existing models for both
vehicle and pedestrian detection on the CODD dataset. The
experiments demonstrate that cooperative perception also
improves the pedestrian detection accuracy compared to the
conventional single vehicle perception process.
1. Introduction
3D object detection with LiDAR sensor has become
more significant in Autonomous Vehicles (A Vs) in the re-
cent years [5, 10, 20, 28, 31], because it can provide more
spatial information about the objects of interest including
their locations, size and orientation. LiDAR can gener-
ate point cloud data which contains accurate depth infor-
mation and is less affected by external illumination condi-
tions. However, point clouds far away from the LiDAR are
extremely sparse which make the detection of further ob-
jects more difficult. Objects that are occluded will generate
Figure 1: One example frame from CODD dataset [2] with
four CA Vs. The red arrows indicate the moving directions
of four CA Vs, one left turn vehicle and two pedestrians.
fewer points, which makes inference harder especially for
the small objects such as pedestrians.
Cooperative perception enables Connected Autonomous
Vehicles (CA Vs) and/or Road Side Units (RSUs) to share
perceived information using the Vehicular Communication
(VC) systems within the communication range [1, 3, 16,
22, 25, 26, 27]. The perceived information can consist of
GPS and a variety of sensor data including RADAR, cam-
era, and LiDAR data. Cooperative perception helps to com-
pensate for the limitations of the current visual perception
techniques such as limited resolution, weather effects, and
blind spots. CA Vs are equipped with VC systems to en-
able exchange of traffic information with the surrounding
CA Vs. One vehicle can receive and aggregate information
from other CA Vs with its own locally perceived data to im-
plement cooperative perception and thereby, improve the
safety and robustness of the automated driving system.
An example from the CODD dataset [2] is shown in Fig.
1. The figure depicts a scene at an intersection with four
CA Vs. In this scenario, CA V1 is driving towards the hori-
zontal main street and will interact with other vehicles and
pedestrians. Even if CA V2 is leaving the main street, it
can still provide other CA Vs with the view of the intersec-
tion. At the same time, CA V3 and CA V4 will supply CA V1
with the main street view, allowing it to pass the intersec-
1186
