Adver-City: Open-Source Multi-Modal Dataset for Collaborative Perception
Under Adverse Weather Conditions
Mateus Karvat1 and Sidney Givigi1
1School of Computing, Queen’s University, Canada
{mateus.karvat, sidney.givigi}@queensu.ca
Abstract
Adverse weather conditions pose a significant challenge
to the widespread adoption of Autonomous Vehicles (AVs)
by impacting sensors like LiDARs and cameras. Even
though Collaborative Perception (CP) improves AV percep-
tion in difficult conditions, existing CP datasets lack ad-
verse weather conditions. To address this, we introduce
Adver-City, the first open-source synthetic CP dataset fo-
cused on adverse weather conditions. Simulated in CARLA
with OpenCDA, it contains over 24 thousand frames, over
890 thousand annotations, and 110 unique scenarios across
six different weather conditions: clear weather, soft rain,
heavy rain, fog, foggy heavy rain and, for the first time in
a synthetic CP dataset, glare. It has six object categories
including pedestrians and cyclists, and uses data from vehi-
cles and roadside units featuring LiDARs, RGB and seman-
tic segmentation cameras, GNSS, and IMUs. Its scenar-
ios, based on real crash reports, depict the most relevant
road configurations for adverse weather and poor visibil-
ity conditions, varying in object density, with both dense
and sparse scenes, allowing for novel testing conditions
of CP models. Benchmarks run on the dataset show that
weather conditions created challenging conditions for per-
ception models, with CoBEVT scoring 58.30/52.44/38.90
(AP@30/50/70). The dataset, code and documentation
are available at https://labs.cs.queensu.ca/
quarrg/datasets/adver-city/.
1. Introduction
Self-driving cars are here, with robotaxi companies in the
USA and China having already logged over 60 million
fully autonomous miles on public roads [3]. However, Au-
tonomous Vehicles (A Vs) still have a long road ahead before
reaching widespread adoption. Many issues must still be
addressed to ensure that A Vs can drive safely and reliably
in all possible scenarios.
Adverse weather conditions such as rain, fog, and glare
present significant challenges to A Vs. Although most driv-
ing is not done in these conditions, they create particularly
difficult driving scenarios. For instance, it only rains on
land 8% of the time [36] but the risk of accidents in rainy
weather is 70% higher than normal [1]. Furthermore, ad-
verse weather degrades the performance of perception sen-
sors such as cameras and LiDARs [26].
A promising solution to this challenge is Collaborative
Perception (CP) [46], a growing field within self-driving
research. In CP, Connected A Vs (CA Vs) share informa-
tion about their surroundings with each other, an approach
called V2V (Vehicle-to-Vehicle) collaboration, or also with
other entities such as Roadside Units (RSUs), an approach
called V2X (Vehicle-to-Everything) collaboration. CP sig-
nificantly enhances a vehicle’s perception capabilities [8],
especially in situations involving occlusion or long-range
detection [38], and is expected to offer similar benefits in
adverse weather conditions.
However, the development of robust CP models for chal-
lenging weather is hindered by the fact that no public real-
world CP dataset focuses on adverse weather conditions.
Despite their reduced realism, simulated datasets offer a
promising solution to such a shortage through controlled
scenario design, allowing uncommon scenarios such as
heavy fog and intense glare to be captured extensively. Yet,
existing open-source CP datasets have no adverse weather
scenes, while those with adverse conditions offer little
weather diversity and are not open-source, preventing scene
modifications to expand weather variety.
To address this gap, we introduce Adver-City, the first
open-source CP dataset focused on adverse weather, cre-
ated using the CARLA simulator [6] and OpenCDA frame-
work [40]. The dataset includes 110 diverse scenarios
across six distinct weather conditions: clear weather, glare,
soft rain, heavy rain, fog and foggy heavy rain (Figure 1).
It is the first synthetic CP dataset to feature glare and incor-
porate real-life data on adverse weather and poor visibility
conditions in its scenario design. Each scene includes three
CA Vs and two RSUs, and multi-modal data from LiDARs,
RGB and semantic cameras, GNSS, and IMUs, supporting
arXiv:2410.06380v2  [cs.CV]  21 Mar 2025