BEVFusion: Multi-Task Multi-Sensor Fusion
with Unified Bird’s-Eye View Representation
Zhijian Liu ∗,1, Haotian Tang ∗,1, Alexander Amini 1, Xinyu Yang 1, Huizi Mao 2, Daniela L. Rus 1, Song Han 1
Abstract— Multi-sensor fusion is essential for an accurate
and reliable autonomous driving system. Recent approaches
are based on point-level fusion: augmenting the LiDAR point
cloud with camera features. However, the camera-to-LiDAR
projection throws away the semantic density of camera features,
hindering the effectiveness of such methods, especially for
semantic-oriented tasks (such as 3D scene segmentation). In
this paper, we propose BEVFusion, an efficient and generic
multi-task multi-sensor fusion framework. It unifies multi-modal
features in the shared bird’s-eye view (BEV) representation
space, which nicely preserves both geometric and semantic
information. To achieve this, we diagnose and lift the key
efficiency bottlenecks in the view transformation with optimized
BEV pooling, reducing latency by more than 40 ×. BEVFusion
is fundamentally task-agnostic and seamlessly supports different
3D perception tasks with almost no architectural changes. It
establishes the new state of the art on the nuScenes benchmark,
achieving 1.3% higher mAP and NDS on 3D object detection and
13.6% higher mIoU on BEV map segmentation, with 1.9× lower
computation cost. Code to reproduce our results is available at
https://github.com/mit-han-lab/bevfusion.
I. I NTRODUCTION
Autonomous driving systems are equipped with diverse
sensors. For instance, Waymo’s self-driving vehicles have 29
cameras, 6 radars, and 5 LiDARs. Different sensors provide
complementary signals: e.g., cameras capture rich semantic
information, LiDARs provide accurate spatial information,
while radars offer instant velocity estimation. Thus, multi-
sensor fusion is essential for accurate and reliable perception.
Data from different sensors are expressed in fundamentally
different modalities: e.g., cameras capture data in perspective
view and LiDAR in 3D view. To resolve this view discrepancy,
we have to find a unified representation that is suitable for
multi-task multi-modal feature fusion. Due to the tremendous
success in 2D perception, the natural idea is to project
the LiDAR point cloud onto the camera and process the
RGB-D data with 2D CNNs. However, this LiDAR-to-
camera projection introduces severe geometric distortion
(see Figure 1a), which makes it less effective for geometric-
oriented tasks, such as 3D object recognition.
Recent sensor fusion methods follow the other direction.
They augment the LiDAR point cloud with semantic labels [1],
CNN features [ 2], [3] or virtual points from 2D images [ 4],
and then apply an existing LiDAR-based detector to predict
∗ The first two authors contributed equally and are listed alphabetically.
This work was supported by MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab, National Science
Foundation, Hyundai Motor, Qualcomm, NVIDIA and Apple. Zhijian Liu
was partially supported by the Qualcomm Innovation Fellowship.
1 Z. Liu, H. Tang, A. Amini, X. Yang, D. Rus, and S. Han are with
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
2 H. Mao is with OmniML, San Jose, CA 95131, USA.
(a) To Camera: geometric-lossy(b) To LiDAR: semantic-lossy
close (red) and faraway (blue) points in 3D 
are neighbors in 2D
The intersection region is not covered.
LiDAR features
Camera  features
 
(c) Shared spaceBEVFusion
BEV features (camera)
BEV features (LiDAR)
Fig. 1: BEVFusion unifies camera and LiDAR features in a
shared BEV space instead of mapping one modality to the
other. It preserves camera’s semantic density and LiDAR’s
geometric structure.
3D bounding boxes. Although they have demonstrated remark-
able performance on large-scale detection benchmarks, these
point-level fusion methods barely work on semantic-oriented
tasks, such as BEV map segmentation [ 5], [6], [7], [8]. This
is because the camera-to-LiDAR projection is semantically
lossy (see Figure 1b): for a typical 32-beam LiDAR scanner,
only 5% camera features will be matched to a LiDAR point
while all others will be dropped. Such density differences will
become even more drastic for sparser LiDARs (or radars).
In this paper, we propose BEVFusion to unify multi-modal
features in a shared bird’s-eye view (BEV) representation
space for task-agnostic learning. We maintain both geometric
structure and semantic density (see Figure 1c) and naturally
support most 3D perception tasks (since their output space can
be naturally captured in BEV). While converting all features
to BEV , we identify the major prohibitive efficiency bottleneck
in the view transformation: i.e., the BEV pooling operation
alone takes more than 80% of the model’s runtime. Then, we
propose a specialized kernel with precomputation and interval
reduction to eliminate this bottleneck, achieving more than
40× speedup. Finally, we apply the fully-convolutional BEV
encoder to fuse the unified BEV features and append a few
task-specific heads to support different target tasks.
BEVFusion sets the new state-of-the-art 3D object detection
performance on both nuScenes and Waymo benchmarks. It
outperforms all published methods with or without test-time
augmentation and model ensemble. BEVFusion demonstrates
even more significant improvements on BEV map segmenta-
tion. It achieves 6% higher mIoU than camera-only models
and 13.6% higher mIoU than LiDAR-only models, while
existing fusion methods hardly work. Moreover, BEVFusion
arXiv:2205.13542v3  [cs.CV]  1 Sep 2024