BM2CP: Efficient Collaborative Perception with
LiDAR-Camera Modalities
Binyu Zhao, Wei Zhang⋆, Zhaonian Zou
School of Computer Science and Technology
Harbin Institute of Technology, China
byzhao@stu.hit.edu.cn, {weizhang,znzou}@hit.edu.cn
Abstract: Collaborative perception enables agents to share complementary per-
ceptual information with nearby agents. This would improve the perception per-
formance and alleviate the issues of single-view perception, such as occlusion and
sparsity. Most existing approaches mainly focus on single modality (especially Li-
DAR), and not fully exploit the superiority of multi-modal perception. We propose
a collaborative perception paradigm, BM2CP, which employs LiDAR and cam-
era to achieve efficient multi-modal perception. It utilizes LiDAR-guided modal
fusion, cooperative depth generation and modality-guided intermediate fusion to
acquire deep interactions among modalities of different agents, Moreover, it is ca-
pable to cope with the special case where one of the sensors, same or different
type, of any agent is missing. Extensive experiments validate that our approach
outperforms the state-of-the-art methods with50× lower communication volumes
in both simulated and real-world autonomous driving scenarios. Our code is avail-
able at https://github.com/byzhaoAI/BM2CP.
Keywords: Multi-Agent Perception, Multi-Modal Fusion, Vehicle-to-Everything
(V2X) Application
1 Introduction
Collaborative perception enables agents to share complementary perceptual information with their
nearby agents. This would fundamentally alleviate the issues of single-agent perception, such as
occlusion and sparsity in raw observations. Recently, different strategies have been proposed to
implement collaborative perception. These approaches can be divided into three categories: LiDAR
based collaboration [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15], camera based collaboration [16,
17, 18, 19] and multi-modal based collaboration [20].
Intuitively, different types of sensors can provide heterogeneous perceptual information at different
levels, and thus, more accurate perception could be achieved through multi-modal analysis. How-
ever, most existing approaches are not multi-modal based methods, and present better performance
only using LiDAR. Take camera and LiDAR as example, fusing the two modalities straightforwardly
will bring negative impacts on perception performance, which is demonstrated by experiments in Ta-
ble 3a. Camera captures rich semantics and contexts in a fixed view, but lacks the information of
distance. Thus distance information, i.e. depth, will be estimated at first generally, which could
help lift the camera representations from 2D to 3D to align with LiDAR representations. But the
estimation brings uncertainty and have negative effect to modal fusion and subsequent collaborative
feature fusion.
Therefore, it poses challenges to build a well-behaved collaborative perception method with LiDAR-
camera modalities: (a) How to generate depth information? (b) How to fuse the LiDAR data and
camera data effectively? (c) How to collaborate between agents with multi-modal data?
7th Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL 2023), Atlanta, USA.