What Makes Good Collaborative Views? Contrastive Mutual Information
Maximization for Multi-Agent Perception
Wanfang Su*,1,2, Lixing Chen *,1,2, Yang Bai†,1, Xi Lin 1,2, Gaolei Li 1,2, Zhe Qu 3, Pan Zhou 4
1School of Electronic Information and Electrical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China
2Shanghai Key Laboratory of Integrated Administration Technologies for Information Security, Shanghai, China
3School of Computer Science and Engineering, Central South University, Changsha, China
4 Hubei Engineering Research Center on Big Data Security, School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Huazhong University
of Science of Technology, Wuhan, China
{77susu, lxchen, ybai, linxi234, gaolei li}@sjtu.edu.cn, zhe qu@csu.edu.cn, zhoupannewton@gmail.com
Abstract
Multi-agent perception (MAP) allows autonomous systems
to understand complex environments by interpreting data
from multiple sources. This paper investigates intermedi-
ate collaboration for MAP with a specific focus on ex-
ploring “good” properties of collaborative view (i.e., post-
collaboration feature) and its underlying relationship to in-
dividual views (i.e., pre-collaboration features), which were
treated as an opaque procedure by most existing works.
We propose a novel framework named CMiMC (Contrastive
Mutual Information Maximization for Collaborative Percep-
tion) for intermediate collaboration. The core philosophy of
CMiMC is to preserve discriminative information of individ-
ual views in the collaborative view by maximizing mutual in-
formation between pre- and post-collaboration features while
enhancing the efficacy of collaborative views by minimiz-
ing the loss function of downstream tasks. In particular, we
define multi-view mutual information (MVMI) for interme-
diate collaboration that evaluates correlations between col-
laborative views and individual views on both global and
local scales. We establish CMiMNet based on multi-view
contrastive learning to realize estimation and maximization
of MVMI, which assists the training of a collaboration en-
coder for voxel-level feature fusion. We evaluate CMiMC on
V2X-Sim 1.0, and it improves the SOTA average precision
by 3.08% and 4.44% at 0.5 and 0.7 IoU (Intersection-over-
Union) thresholds, respectively. In addition, CMiMC can re-
duce communication volume to 1/32 while achieving perfor-
mance comparable to SOTA. Code and Appendix are released
at https://github.com/77SWF/CMiMC.
Introduction
Multi-Agent perception (MAP) (Wang et al. 2023; Xu et al.
2023a) refers to the process by which multiple entities work
together to gather a interpret sensory information and estab-
lish a collective comprehension of the environment. MAP
enhances perception capabilities over the single-agent per-
ception by mitigating inherent limitations arising from in-
dividual perspectives (Li et al. 2021). For example, using
*These authors contributed equally.
†Corresponding authors.
Copyright © 2024, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
MAP in autonomous driving (Cui et al. 2022; Chen et al.
2017) effectively addresses challenges caused by occlusions
and sparse observations in long-distance areas.
Collaboration strategy is one of the fundamental compo-
nents of MAP, which involves protocols for communication,
data sharing, and coordination among multiple agents. State-
of-the-art collaboration strategies can be categorized into
three types: early collaboration, late collaboration, and in-
termediate collaboration. Early Collaboration (Chen et al.
2019; Arnold et al. 2020) aggregates the raw measurement
from agents to generate a comprehensive view. However,
it requires substantial communication bandwidth and incurs
privacy leakage risk. Late Collaboration (Miller et al. 2020)
aggregates perception results of individual agents, which is
bandwidth-efficient. However, individual perception results
are noisy and coarse-grained, and therefore may cause in-
ferior performance for collaborative perception. To strike a
balance between performance and bandwidth usage, Inter-
mediate Collaboration has been proposed (Liu et al. 2020b;
Hu et al. 2022) to aggregate intermediate features of agents.
The intermediate features distill compact knowledge repre-
sentations from raw measurement, offering the potential for
both communication efficiency and enhanced perception ca-
pability. Nevertheless, intermediate collaboration strategies
require judicious design, otherwise, may result in substan-
tial information loss and adversely impact the effectiveness
of MAP.
Recent endeavors have been dedicated to the advance-
ment of intermediate collaboration strategies. For exam-
ple, V2VNet (Wang et al. 2020) proposes to exchange in-
termediate features and integrate them via a spatial-aware
graph neural network for improving motion prediction per-
formance; When2com (Liu et al. 2020a) constructs a com-
munication group based on general attention mechanisms to
determine the optimal timing for intermediate collaboration;
DiscoNet (Li et al. 2021) trains a distilled collaboration net-
work to push the results of intermediate collaboration close
to that of early collaboration. The majority of current works
treat the intermediate collaboration as an opaque process and
approximate it with deep neural networks that are trained
to optimize the performance of downstream tasks or other
specified design goals. However, such a process can eas-
The Thirty-Eighth AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AAAI-24)
17550