IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS, VOL. 25, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2024 20059
Weather-Aware Collaborative Perception With
Uncertainty Reduction
Ping Jiang
 , Member, IEEE, Xiaoheng Deng
 , Senior Member, IEEE, Weishang Wu, Member, IEEE,
Lixin Lin, Member, IEEE, Xuechen Chen
 , Member, IEEE, Chen Chen
 , Senior Member, IEEE,
and Shaohua Wan
 , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract— Although collaborative 3D perception has suc-
cessfully improved detection performance by sharing LIDAR
information among multiple agents, its impact under adverse
weather is under poor investigation. It is non-trivial to reduce the
noise effect in the multi-agent system, as each agent may generate
defective feature representations with aleatoric uncertainty, and
such uncertainty will be further amplified in the collaborative
stage due to deterministic collaboration models. To mitigate the
negative effects of weather noise on the collaborative framework,
we proposed a method called Co-Denoising, which incorporates
a two-stage denoising approach within the intermediate col-
laborative framework. In our method, a sampling-based noise
filtering is first performed at each agent to make a coarse
denoising. Then, during the collaboration stage, the global feature
representations are expanded through Bayesian neural networks
to improve the robustness against environmental noise. The
extensive experiments on sunny and rainy datasets have indicated
the proposed collaborative perception method can significantly
reduce performance degradation under adverse weather.
Index Terms— Collaborative perception, 3D object detection,
weather noise, Bayesian neural networks.
Received 25 August 2023; revised 26 December 2023 and 8 July 2024;
accepted 1 October 2024. Date of publication 30 October 2024; date of current
version 27 November 2024. This work was supported in part by the National
Natural Science Foundation of China under Project 62172441 and Project
62172449, in part by the Joint Funds for Railway Fundamental Research
of National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant U2368201,
in part by the Special Fund of National Key Laboratory of Ni&Co Associated
Minerals Resources Development and Comprehensive Utilization under Grant
GZSYS-KY-2022-018 and Grant GZSYS-KY-2022-024, in part by the Key
Project of Shenzhen City Special Fund for Fundamental Research under Grant
JCYJ20220818103200002, in part by the National Natural Science Foundation
of Hunan Province under Grant 2023JJ30696, in part by Hunan Provincial
Department of Transportation Foundation under Grant 201929, in part by
the Postgraduate Innovative Project of Central South University under Grant
2022XQLH093, and in part by the Fundamental Research Funds for the
Central Universities of Central South University under Grant 2023ZZTS0180.
The Associate Editor for this article was C. Wen. (Corresponding authors:
Xiaoheng Deng; Lixin Lin.)
Ping Jiang is with the School of Computer Science, Nanjing Univer-
sity of Posts and Telecommunications, Nanjing 210003, China (e-mail:
pjiang@njupt.edu.cn).
Xiaoheng Deng, Weishang Wu, Lixin Lin, and Xuechen Chen are with
the School of Computer Science and Engineering and Shenzhen Institute,
Central South University, Changsha 410075, China (e-mail: dxh@csu.edu.cn;
214711108@csu.edu.cn; llx@csu.edu.cn; chenxuec@csu.edu.cn).
Chen Chen is with the State Key Laboratory of Integrated
Services Networks, Xidian University, Xi’an 710071, China (e-mail:
cc2000@mail.xidian.edu.cn).
Shaohua Wan is with Shenzhen Institute for Advanced Study, University
of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Shenzhen 518110, China
(e-mail: shaohua.wan@uestc.edu.cn).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TITS.2024.3479720
I. I NTRODUCTION
T
HREE-DIMENSION
AL object detection, as one of the
fundamental tasks in 3D perception, has made significant
advancements in the past several years. Its objective is to
localize and classify objects from point clouds, providing
support for various applications, especially for autonomous
driving. Despite the rapid development of large-scale datasets
and powerful deep-learning models, single-agent 3D object
detection inherently faces limitations, including occlusion and
long-range perception issues. Multi-agent collaboration offers
a potential solution for this. By leveraging communication
between agents in traffic scenarios, multiple agents (including
autonomous vehicles or roadside infrastructure) can share
complementary perception information, enabling more robust
and accurate environment perception and providing reliable
support for downstream tasks like driving decision-making.
Recent efforts in collaborative 3D detection have contributed
some effective cooperative methods [1], [2], [3] and high-
quality datasets [4], [5]. However, in this emerging field,
numerous challenges remain, including communication band-
width constraints, weather condition, adversarial attacks etc.
The focus of this work is to improve the performance of
collaborative perception tasks under rainy weather conditions.
Currently, LiDAR is the mainstream sensor used for envi-
ronmental perception in autonomous driving [6], [7]. Although
LiDAR sensors can operate day and night without being
affected by lighting conditions, weather remains an important
factor that impact its performance [8], [9]. Specifically, under
rainy weather conditions, when laser pulses pass through
scattering media, its intensity experiences exponential decay
with distance due to scattering effects. Also, in close range of
the sensor, the background strength is particularly increased
because a larger proportion of backscattered laser power from
random droplets reaches the sensor [9]. This is expected to
confuse the sensor, making it difficult to distinguish which
pulse originates from a real target, thus leading to missing
points and random scattering points. Therefore, enhancing the
stability of autonomous vehicles in rainy weather conditions
has been an important research direction.
To deal with noisy point clouds, current methods for single-
agent 3D detection mostly use learning-based frameworks [8]
to bring in more diverse samples. However, these learning
methods raise concerns about their generalization. The impact
of noise on what each agent experiences varies a lot. Such
1558-0016 © 2024 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Central South University. Downloaded on February 08,2025 at 09:00:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 