CoBEVT: Cooperative Bird’s Eye View Semantic
Segmentation with Sparse Transformers
Runsheng Xu1∗, Zhengzhong Tu 2∗, Hao Xiang 1, Wei Shao 3, Bolei Zhou 1, Jiaqi Ma 1†
1 University of California, Los Angeles, 2 University of Texas at Austin
3 University of California, Davis
Abstract: Bird’s eye view (BEV) semantic segmentation plays a crucial role
in spatial sensing for autonomous driving. Although recent literature has made
signiﬁcant progress on BEV map understanding, they are all based on single-
agent camera-based systems. These solutions sometimes have difﬁculty handling
occlusions or detecting distant objects in complex trafﬁc scenes. Vehicle-to-
Vehicle (V2V) communication technologies have enabled autonomous vehicles
to share sensing information, dramatically improving the perception performance
and range compared to single-agent systems. In this paper, we propose CoBEVT,
the ﬁrst generic multi-agent multi-camera perception framework that can cooper-
atively generate BEV map predictions. To efﬁciently fuse camera features from
multi-view and multi-agent data in an underlying Transformer architecture, we
design a fused axial attention module (FAX), which captures sparsely local and
global spatial interactions across views and agents. The extensive experiments on
the V2V perception dataset, OPV2V , demonstrate that CoBEVT achieves state-
of-the-art performance for cooperative BEV semantic segmentation. Moreover,
CoBEVT is shown to be generalizable to other tasks, including 1) BEV segmen-
tation with single-agent multi-camera and 2) 3D object detection with multi-agent
LiDAR systems, achieving state-of-the-art performance with real-time inference
speed. The code is available at https://github.com/DerrickXuNu/CoBEVT.
Keywords: Autonomous driving, BEV map understanding, Vehicle-to-Vehicle
(V2V) application
1 Introduction
Autonomous vehicles (A Vs) need accurate surrounding perception and robust online mapping capa-
bilities for robust and safe autonomy [1]. A Vs are normally located on the ground plane, so it is nat-
ural to represent semantic and geometric information of surroundings in the bird’s eye view (BEV)
maps. Projecting multi-camera views onto the holistic BEV space brings clear strengths in preserv-
ing the location and scale of road elements both spatially and temporally, which is critical for various
autonomous driving tasks, including scene understanding and planning [2, 3]. It also presents a scal-
able vision-based solution for real-world deployment without relying on costly LiDAR sensors.
Map-view (or BEV) semantic segmentation is a fundamental task that aims to predict road segments
from single- or multi-calibrated camera inputs. Signiﬁcant efforts have been made toward precise
camera-based BEV semantic segmentation. One of the most popular techniques is to leverage depth
information to infer the correspondences between camera views and the canonical maps [4, 5, 6, 7].
Another family of works directly learns the camera-to-BEV space transformation, either implicitly
or explicitly, using attention-based models [3, 8, 9, 10]. Despite the promising results, vision-based
perception systems have intrinsic limitations – camera sensors are known to be sensitive to object
occlusions and limited depth-of-ﬁeld, which can lead to inferior performance in areas that are heavily
occluded or far from the camera lens [3, 11].
Recent advancements in Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) communication technologies have made it pos-
sible to overcome the limitations of single-agent line-of-sight sensing. That is, multiple connected
∗Equal contribution.†Corresponding author: jiaqima@ucla.edu.
6th Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL 2022), Auckland, New Zealand.