Communication-Efficient Collaborative Perception via
Information Filling with Codebook
Yue Hu1,4 Juntong Peng1,4 Sifei Liu1,4 Junhao Ge1,4 Si Liu3 Siheng Chen1,2,4
1Cooperative Medianet Innovation Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 2Shanghai AI Laboratory
3Beihang University 4Multi-Agent Governance & Intelligence Crew (MAGIC)
1{18671129361,juntong.peng,hiraeth416,cancaries,sihengc}@sjtu.edu.cn 3{liusi}@buaa.edu.cn
Abstract
Collaborative perception empowers each agent to im-
prove its perceptual ability through the exchange of per-
ceptual messages with other agents. It inherently re-
sults in a fundamental trade-off between perception abil-
ity and communication cost. To address this bottleneck
issue, our core idea is to optimize the collaborative mes-
sages from two key aspects: representation and selec-
tion. The proposed codebook-based message representa-
tion enables the transmission of integer codes, rather than
high-dimensional feature maps. The proposed information-
filling-driven message selection optimizes local messages to
collectively fill each agent’s information demand, prevent-
ing information overflow among multiple agents. By in-
tegrating these two designs, we propose CodeFilling,
a novel communication-efficient collaborative percep-
tion system, which significantly advances the perception-
communication trade-off and is inclusive to both homo-
geneous and heterogeneous collaboration settings. We
evaluate CodeFilling in both a real-world dataset,
DAIR-V2X, and a new simulation dataset, OPV2VH+.
Results show that CodeFilling outperforms previ-
ous SOTA Where2comm on DAIR-V2X/OPV2VH+ with
1,333/1,206× lower communication volume. Our code
is available at https://github.com/PhyllisH/
CodeFilling.
1. Introduction
Collaborative perception aims to enhance the perceptual
ability of each individual agent by facilitating the exchange
of complementary perceptual information among multiple
agents [1, 10, 12, 15, 16, 19, 22, 24, 30, 31, 43]. It
fundamentally overcomes the occlusion and long-range is-
sues in single-agent perception [4, 11, 13, 45]. As the
forefront of autonomous systems, collaborative perception
shows significant potential in enormous real-world appli-
Figure 1. CodeFilling avoids redundant messages and
achieves more complete detections by transmitting more critical
perceptual information with the compact code index message.
cations, particularly vehicle-to-everything-communication-
aided autonomous driving [2, 3, 18, 26, 28–30, 33, 38, 39].
In this emerging field, a central challenge lies in opti-
mizing the trade-off between perception performance and
communication cost inherent in agents sharing perceptual
data [10, 12, 16, 19, 20, 30, 41, 42]. Given inevitable practi-
cal constraints of communication systems, efficient utiliza-
tion of communication resources is the prerequisite for col-
laborative perception. To minimize communication over-
head, a straightforward solution is late collaboration, where
agents directly exchange the perception outputs. However,
numerous previous works indicate that late collaboration
yields marginal perception improvements and is vulnera-
ble to various noises [10, 21]. To optimize the perception-
communication trade-off, most studies consider intermedi-
ate collaboration, where the collaborative messages are per-
ceptual features [10, 12, 16, 19, 20, 29, 35, 37, 40]. For
example, When2com [19] proposed the handshake strategy
to limit the number of collaborators; and Where2comm [10]
proposed a pragmatic strategy that only transmits messages
about constrained spatial areas. While these methods miti-
gate certain communication costs, they still necessitate the
transmission of high-dimensional feature maps, which in-
curs substantial communication expenses.
To overcome the limitations of intermediate collabora-
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
15481
