CoDynTrust: Robust Asynchronous Collaborative Perception via
Dynamic Feature Trust Modulus
Yunjiang Xu1, Lingzhi Li 1∗, Jin Wang 2∗, Benyuan Yang 2, Zhiwen Wu 1, Xinhong Chen 3, Jianping Wang 3
Abstract— Collaborative perception, fusing information from
multiple agents, can extend perception range so as to improve
perception performance. However, temporal asynchrony in real-
world environments, caused by communication delays, clock
misalignment, or sampling configuration differences, can lead
to information mismatches. If this is not well handled, then
the collaborative performance is patchy, and what’s worse
safety accidents may occur. To tackle this challenge, we pro-
pose CoDynTrust, an uncertainty-encoded asynchronous fusion
perception framework that is robust to the information mis-
matches caused by temporal asynchrony. CoDynTrust generates
dynamic feature trust modulus (DFTM) for each region of
interest by modeling aleatoric and epistemic uncertainty as well
as selectively suppressing or retaining single-vehicle features,
thereby mitigating information mismatches. We then design a
multi-scale fusion module to handle multi-scale feature maps
processed by DFTM. Compared to existing works that also
consider asynchronous collaborative perception, CoDynTrust
combats various low-quality information in temporally asyn-
chronous scenarios and allows uncertainty to be propagated to
downstream tasks such as planning and control. Experimental
results demonstrate that CoDynTrust significantly reduces per-
formance degradation caused by temporal asynchrony across
multiple datasets, achieving state-of-the-art detection perfor-
mance even with temporal asynchrony. The code is available at
https://github.com/CrazyShout/CoDynTrust.
I. INTRODUCTION
With the rapid development of autonomous driving, 3D
object detection, a core technology for environmental per-
ception, has gained widespread attention [1], [2], [3]. Its
goal is to accurately identify and locate objects using sensor
data from LiDAR and cameras. However, single-vehicle
sensors have limited coverage, especially in complex urban
environments with occlusion and reduced visibility [4], [5].
This makes comprehensive perception difficult. As an al-
ternative, collaborative perception arises, which can signif-
icantly improve perception range and accuracy by sharing
and processing data among multiple agents via vehicle-to-
everything (V2X) technology [6], [7], [8].
Although collaborative perception mitigates the limitations
of single-vehicle perception, it still faces practical issues such
as positioning errors [9], bandwidth limitations [10], and
latency [11]. Among them, temporal asynchrony is one of
1School of Computer Science and Technology, Soochow University,
Suzhou 215006, China.
2School of Future Science and Engineering, Soochow University, Suzhou
215299, China.
3Computer Science of Department, City University of Hong Kong.
Emails: yjxu95@stu.suda.edu.cn,
{lilingzhi, wjin1985, byyang }@suda.edu.cn,
zwwu@stu.suda.edu.cn, {xinhong.chen,
jianwang}@cityu.edu.hk
∗Corresponding author.
0.90.80.70.60.50.4
 0.90.80.70.60.50.4
Misdetection 
information
Misdetection 
information
Fig. 1. Based on DFTM, CoDynTrust can mitigate error propagation ampli-
fied by temporal asynchrony, effectively suppressing low-quality information
and enhancing detection robustness.
the most difficult challenges since it can lead to mismatches
in sensor data, thus causing collisions and conflicts between
different vehicles. There exist several methods that use delay
compensation strategies to address temporal asynchrony [11],
[12], [13], [14], [15]. However, they are limited to processing
single-frame data and do not fully utilize historical informa-
tion. Moreover, their performance is limited in high-latency
or complex scenarios. In reality, asynchronous communica-
tion is inevitable due to unsynchronized sampling, different
processing speed, or network congestion. This poses threats
to the accuracy and real-time performance of perception.
To address the temporal asynchrony in collaborative per-
ception, we propose CoDynTrust, as illustrated in Fig. 1.
CoDynTrust evaluates the dynamic feature trust modulus
(DFTM) of each region of interest (ROI) so as to tackle error
propagation in the ROI generator. Furthermore, we adopt
a simple linear extrapolation method instead of a learned
motion prediction model so as to ensure reasonable vehicle
movement within common latency ranges (0s–0.5s). Then,
we design an adaptive fusion method to enhance system
performance. Finally, we conduct extensive experiments on
real and simulated datasets for LiDAR-based 3D object
detection tasks, including DAIR-V2X [16], V2XSet [13], and
OPV2V [17]. Experimental results show that: i) DFTM effec-
tively addresses detection quality inconsistencies caused by
noise, model flaws, and asynchronous delays. ii) CoDynTrust
consistently outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods in
delay scenarios. In summary, the main contributions of this
paper are as follows:
• We propose CoDynTrust, a novel LiDAR-based 3D de-
tection framework for robust asynchronous multi-agent
perception, addressing detection errors from noise,
arXiv:2502.08169v1  [cs.CV]  12 Feb 2025