2327-4662 (c) 2020 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
This article has been accepted for publication in a future issue of this journal, but has not been fully edited. Content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2021.3053184, IEEE Internet of
Things Journal
1
CoFF: Cooperative Spatial Feature Fusion for 3D
Object Detection on Autonomous Vehicles
Jingda Guo, Dominic Carrillo, Sihai Tang, Qi Chen, Qing Yang, Senior Member, IEEE, Song Fu, Senior
Member, IEEE, Xi Wang Member, IEEE, Nannan Wang Member, IEEE, Paparao Palacharla Member, IEEE
Abstract—To reduce the amount of transmitted data, feature
map based fusion is recently proposed as a practical solution
to cooperative 3D object detection by autonomous vehicles. The
precision of object detection, however, may require signiﬁcant
improvement, especially for objects that are far away or occluded.
To address this critical issue for the safety of autonomous vehicles
and human beings, we propose a cooperative spatial feature
fusion (CoFF) method for autonomous vehicles to effectively
fuse feature maps for achieving a higher 3D object detection
performance. Specially, CoFF differentiates weights among fea-
ture maps for a more guided fusion, based on how much
new semantic information is provided by the received feature
maps. It also enhances the inconspicuous features corresponding
to far/occluded objects to improve their detection precision.
Experimental results show that CoFF achieves a signiﬁcant
improvement in terms of both detection precision and effective
detection range for autonomous vehicles, compared to previous
feature fusion solutions.
Index Terms—Autonomous vehicles, cooperative perception,
3D object detection, feature fusion, feature enhancement.
I. I NTRODUCTION
An autonomous vehicle (A V) relies on its perception system
to sense the surroundings and makes driving decisions ac-
cordingly. However, the sensors equipped on A V are typically
non-line-of-sight, whose effective sensing range could be sig-
niﬁcantly reduced on crowded roads, due to blockages and/or
occlusions. Therefore, it is crucial to connect A Vs and allow
them to exchange sensor data to facilitate precise cooperative
perception, thus improving driving safety. A major challenge
for cooperative perception on connected and autonomous ve-
hicles (CA Vs) is how to effectively merge sensor data received
from different A Vs to obtain a precise and comprehensive
perception.
Due to the huge volume of raw sensor data, it is practically
infeasible to exchange raw data among vehicles, which would
cause severe bottlenecks in existing network infrastructures.
To reduce network trafﬁc, a feature map based data sharing
mechanism is proposed for 3D object detection on autonomous
vehicles [1]. Feature maps are the intermediate results pro-
duced by a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). In [1],
feature maps generated on different vehicles are combined to
yield a cooperative object detection. However, we ﬁnd that
Jingda Guo is the corresponding author.
J. Guo, D. Carrillo, S. Tang, Q. Chen, Q. Yang, and S. Fu are
with the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University
of North Texas, Deton, TX, 76207 USA. e-mail: (JingdaGuo@my.unt.edu,
DominicCarrillo@my.unt.edu, sihaitang@my.unt.edu, qichen@my.unt.edu,
qing.yang@unt.edu, song.fu@unt.edu).
X. Wang, N. Wang and P. Palacharla are with Fujitsu.
Manuscript received August 29, 2020; revised December 24, 2020; accepted
January 06, 2021.
its feature fusion mechanism can be further improved, by
considering the volume of new semantic information contained
in the to-be-fused feature maps and enhancing weak feature on
feature maps. In this article, we aim to achieve an enhanced
object detection performance by fusing feature maps in an
intelligent manner.
Unlike raw sensor data, feature maps are hard to interpret,
which increases the difﬁculty in designing an effective fusion
mechanism for cooperative 3D object detection. State-of-
the-art feature maps fusion solutions overlook the semantic
information difference between to-be-fused feature maps, lead
to the adverse effect caused by receivers’ feature maps, and
affect the detection performance of cooperative perception.
To tackle this challenge, we investigate how the volume of
new semantic information provided by a receiver’s feature
map inﬂuences its importance on fusion. We call this ap-
proach “cooperative spatial feature fusion”. We hypothesize
that feature maps produced by a distant vehicle can signif-
icantly improve the object detection on the current vehicle,
particularly for recognizing distant objects. Moreover, we ﬁnd
the weak feature of far/occluded objects can be enhanced for
a better detection performance after fusion, even they are hard
to be detected by current approaches due to far distance or
occlusion. Therefore, a better object detection performance is
expected if feature maps are fused in a more convincing way,
considering enhancement on features. Towards this end, we
propose a novel cooperative spatial feature fusion mechanism
for CA Vs to fuse feature maps and achieve accurate 3D object
detection effectively.
A. Main Challenges
In designing the spatial feature fusion method, we need to
conquer two major technical challenges. The ﬁrst challenge
is how to identify and reduce the negative effects on object
detection caused by mistakenly fused feature maps generated
by different vehicles. This problem was overlooked in the ex-
isting work [1] as it does not consider how feature maps affect
each other when they are fused in a wrong way. The underlying
fusing function adopted by the previous work is maxout which
selects the features with larger values in the fusion process.
The method seems reasonable as it keeps the most distinctive
features while suppressing non-distinctive ones; however, it
might omit important features received from other vehicles,
which could have signiﬁcantly improved the current vehicle’s
object detection performance if used correctly. In other words,
the feature maps generated by multiple vehicles should be
treated differently, instead of equally as was the case in the
previous work [1].
Copyright (c) 2021 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted.
However, permission to use this material for any other purposes must be obtained from the IEEE by sending a request to pubs-permissions@ieee.org.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of North Texas. Downloaded on May 24,2021 at 15:43:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 