CoMamba: Real-time Cooperative Perception
Unlocked with State Space Models
https://taco-group.github.io/CoMamba/
Jinlong Li 1, Xinyu Liu 2, Baolu Li 2, Runsheng Xu 3, Jiachen Li 4, Hongkai Yu 2, Zhengzhong Tu 1
Abstract— Cooperative perception systems play a vital role
in enhancing the safety and efficiency of vehicular autonomy.
Although recent studies have highlighted the efficacy of vehicle-
to-everything (V2X) communication techniques in autonomous
driving, a significant challenge persists: how to efficiently
integrate multiple high-bandwidth features across an expanding
network of connected agents such as vehicles and infrastructure.
In this paper, we introduce CoMamba, a novel cooperative 3D
detection framework designed to leverage state-space models for
real-time onboard vehicle perception. Compared to prior state-
of-the-art transformer-based models, CoMamba enjoys being a
more scalable 3D model using bidirectional state space models,
bypassing the quadratic complexity pain-point of attention
mechanisms. Through extensive experimentation on V2X/V2V
datasets, CoMamba achieves superior performance compared
to existing methods while maintaining real-time processing
capabilities. The proposed framework not only enhances object
detection accuracy but also significantly reduces processing
time, making it a promising solution for next-generation cooper-
ative perception systems in intelligent transportation networks.
I. I NTRODUCTION
Recently, the new paradigm of cooperative perception [1]–
[3] that engages multiple connected and automated Vehi-
cles (CA Vs) has captivated massive research interest. By
leveraging vehicle-to-everything (V2X) or vehicle-to-vehicle
(V2V) communication, intelligent actors are now capable of
”talking” to their nearby neighbors to share information like
pose and sensory data (e.g., point clouds, RGB images, or
neural features). Although V2X cooperative systems have
immense potential to transform the transportation industry,
designing efficient fusion strategies to effectively incorporate
large, high-dimensional features remains a challenging and
unsolved research topic. Motivated by the phenomenal study
on Vision Transformer [4], which has demonstrated strong
visual learning capabilities on generic vision tasks, prior
V2X perception models have been investigating the use of
Transformers as the foundational architecture for cooperative
perception [2], [5]–[7]. For example, OPV2V [1] imple-
ments a single-head self-attention module to fuse features
for V2V perception. V2X-ViT [5] presents a unified Vision
Transformer (ViT) architecture for V2X perception, capable
of capturing the heterogeneous nature of V2X systems.
CoBEVT [2] proposes a holistic vision Transformer for
1Texas A&M University. 2Cleveland State University. 3University of
California, Los Angeles. 4University of California, Riverside.
*Corresponding Author: tzz@tamu.edu
multi-view cooperative semantic segmentation. These meth-
ods enhance their visual learning capability by leveraging
self-attention mechanisms to model long-range spatial inter-
actions. However, the practical deployment of these methods
in large-scale, complex real-world scenarios remains limited
due to the slow inference time and worse scalability imbued
in attention-based architectures.
To overcome these limitations, recent advances in State
Space Models (SSMs) [8]–[10] offer competitive alternatives
to the notoriously compute-intensive Transformers. A notable
model, Mamba [11], capably attains long-sequence modeling
with a significantly lower linear complexity by maintaining
a continuous, linear update path through state space. This
efficient design demonstrates impressive performances in
long sequence modeling tasks in natural language process-
ing [12]–[14]. Motivated by this success, recent studies have
explored its potential for fundamental vision tasks [15]–
[18], showcasing impressive performance while considerably
fewer computational resources compared to Transformers.
However, while most of these studies predominantly focus
on 2D vision tasks such as image recognition, the potential
of SSMs to serve as a generic backbone for more challeng-
ing vision tasks remains unexplored, particularly in areas
involving higher-order visual interaction modeling, such as
3D sequence modeling and space-time interactions.
In this paper, we explore the potential adoption of state-
space models for the challenging V2X/V2V cooperative
perception task, which involves high-order, multimodal vi-
sual information fusion using LiDAR scans. We present
CoMamba, a generic Mamba-based architecture for efficient
V2X cooperative perception that perfectly balances detection
performance and computational efficiency. As illustrated
in Fig. 1 our CoMamba fusion network comprises two
key modules: the Cooperative 2D-Selective-Scan Module
and the Global-wise Pooling Module, which we specifi-
cally tailored for conducting feature fusion using an in-
termediate fusion-based cooperative framework. Together,
these modules empower CoMamba to achieve state-of-the-
art perception performance on public V2X/V2V perception
datasets [1], [5], [19], with significant speed-up as compared
to previous transformer-based methods. Notably, CoMamba
unlocks real-time cooperative perception with a low latency
of 37.1 ms per communication, which translates to 26.9
FPS inference speed with merely a 0.64 GB GPU mem-
arXiv:2409.10699v2  [cs.CV]  20 Sep 2024