CORE: Cooperative Reconstruction for Multi-Agent Perception
Binglu Wang1,2*, Lei Zhang1∗, Zhaozhong Wang 1, Yongqiang Zhao 1, Tianfei Zhou 2,3†
1 Northwestern Polytechnical University 2 Beijing Institute of Technology 3 Computer Vision Lab, ETH Zurich
https://github.com/zllxot/CORE
Abstract
This paper presents CORE, a conceptually simple, ef-
fective and communication-efficient model for multi-agent
cooperative perception. It addresses the task from a novel
perspective of cooperative reconstruction, based on two key
insights: 1) cooperating agents together provide a more
holistic observation of the environment, and 2) the holis-
tic observation can serve as valuable supervision to explic-
itly guide the model learning how to reconstruct the ideal
observation based on collaboration. CORE instantiates
the idea with three major components: a compressor for
each agent to create more compact feature representation
for efficient broadcasting, a lightweight attentive collab-
oration component for cross-agent message aggregation,
and a reconstruction module to reconstruct the observation
based on aggregated feature representations. This learning-
to-reconstruct idea is task-agnostic, and offers clear and
reasonable supervision to inspire more effective collabora-
tion, eventually promoting perception tasks. We validate
CORE on two large-scale multi-agent percetion dataset,
OPV2V and V2X-Sim, in two tasks, i.e., 3D object detec-
tion and semantic segmentation. Results demonstrate that
CORE achieves state-of-the-art performance, and is more
communication-efficient.
1. Introduction
Perception – identifying and interpreting sensory infor-
mation – is a crucial ability for intelligent agents to sense
the surrounding environment. Thanks to continued ad-
vances in deep learning, individual perception has demon-
strated remarkable achievements in a number of tasks, e.g.,
detection [26, 45, 19, 24], segmentation [23, 35, 44] and
tracking [36, 43]. Though being promising, it tends to suf-
fer from issues (e.g., occlusion) stemmed from limited line-
of-sight visibility of individual agents and is challenged
by safety concerns. A more compelling paradigm is co-
operative perception , i.e., a collection of agents to be-
*The first two authors contribute equally to this work.
†Corresponding author: Tianfei Zhou.
agent #1
agent #2
agent #3
CORE
agent #1
agent #3
agent #2
rawBEVs reconstructedBEVsLidarpoint cloud
Figure 1: CORE addresses multi-agent perception from a
novel perspective of cooperative reconstruction. Take the
Lidar-based autonomous driving scenario as an example,
individual vehicles are confined to limited sensing capabili-
ties of onboard sensors, yielding partial observations of the
whole scene ( i.e., raw BEVs). CORE takes a straightfor-
ward but remarkably effective step to address this: in ad-
dition to task-aware learning (e.g., object detection, seman-
tic segmentation), CORE explicitly learns to reconstruct the
complete scene (i.e., reconstructed BEVs) from incomplete
observations of cooperating agents. The reconstruction-
aware learning objective serves as a more sensible goal to
inspire more effective cooperation of connected agents, ul-
timately boosting perception performance.
have as a group by exchanging information with each other
so as to use their combined sensory experiences to per-
ceive. Along this direction, recent efforts have been made
to deliver datasets [40, 39, 15, 5] and cooperative solutions
[22, 21, 1, 5, 28, 31, 10, 2, 34, 38, 39].
All these solutions hold a consensus promise that mul-
tiple agents together provide a holistic observation to
the environment. But there is a practical challenge of
performance-bandwidth trade-off to be addressed. On this
account, some studies explore adaptive communication ar-
chitectures to reduce bandwidth requirements by dynami-
cally determining for each agent, e.g., whom to communi-
cate with [22], when to communicate [21], and what mes-
sage to communicate [10], while others focus more on the
design of multi-agent collaborative strategies, e.g., early
collaboration [3, 1] to aggregate raw observations of co-
operating agents, late collaboration [20, 33] to combine
This ICCV paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
8710
