CoSDH: Communication-Efficient Collaborative Perception via Supply-Demand
Awareness and Intermediate-Late Hybridization
Junhao Xu1*, Yanan Zhang2*, Zhi Cai1, Di Huang1†
1State Key Laboratory of Complex and Critical Software Environment, Beihang University, Beijing, China
2School of Computer Science and Information Engineering, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei, China
junhaoxu@buaa.edu.cn, yananzhang@hfut.edu.cn, {caizhi97, dhuang }@buaa.edu.cn
Abstract
Multi-agent collaborative perception enhances perceptual
capabilities by utilizing information from multiple agents
and is considered a fundamental solution to the prob-
lem of weak single-vehicle perception in autonomous driv-
ing. However, existing collaborative perception meth-
ods face a dilemma between communication efficiency
and perception accuracy. To address this issue, we pro-
pose a novel communication-efficient collaborative per-
ception framework based on supply-demand awareness
and intermediate-late hybridization, dubbed as CoSDH. By
modeling the supply-demand relationship between agents,
the framework refines the selection of collaboration re-
gions, reducing unnecessary communication cost while
maintaining accuracy. In addition, we innovatively in-
troduce the intermediate-late hybrid collaboration mode,
where late-stage collaboration compensates for the per-
formance degradation in collaborative perception under
low communication bandwidth. Extensive experiments on
multiple datasets, including both simulated and real-world
scenarios, demonstrate that CoSDH achieves state-of-
the-art detection accuracy and optimal bandwidth trade-
offs, delivering superior detection precision under real
communication bandwidths, thus proving its effectiveness
and practical applicability. The code will be released at
https://github.com/Xu2729/CoSDH.
1. Introduction
Collaborative perception allows multiple agents to ex-
change complementary perception information. It funda-
mentally addresses the issues of limited perception range,
sensor blind spots, and occlusion from obstacles inherent in
single-agent perception, thereby improving both the range
and accuracy of perception. Recent studies have demon-
strated that collaborative perception can be applied to var-
*Equal Contribution. †Corresponding Author.
ious autonomous driving tasks, including 3D object detec-
tion [3, 35, 36], semantic segmentation [20, 37], 3D occu-
pancy prediction [31], and trajectory prediction [43], ex-
hibiting enhanced performance and improved robustness to
occlusions, thus making it a crucial approach for advancing
autonomous driving systems.
Communication efficiency is a key issue in collabora-
tive perception. An early approach to improving com-
munication efficiency was to use autoencoders to com-
press the intermediate features that need to be transmit-
ted [36]. Later, communication-efficient methods such as
Where2comm [11] were proposed, which select important
and sparse foreground regions for collaboration. However,
these methods still lack sufficient precision in area selec-
tion and require more bandwidth than the real-world con-
straints1. As shown in Fig. 1a, when the bandwidth is
limited to 27 Mbps, Where2comm [11] experiences a de-
crease of about 1.5% in average precision (AP@0.7) on the
OPV2V [36] dataset with an intersection-over-union (IoU)
threshold of 0.7. When the bandwidth is further limited to 5
Mbps and 1 Mbps, AP@0.7 drops by approximately 7.5%
and 14.5%, respectively, even falling below the accuracy of
late fusion methods at the result level. This makes it diffi-
cult for existing collaborative perception methods to meet
the demands of practical applications.
In this paper, we first analyze the problem of select-
ing collaboration areas and refine this selection based on
the supply-demand relationship between agents. As shown
in Fig. 1b, for Ego, low-foreground confidence areas can
be divided into three types: Area 1 (low conficence due
to absence of foreground), Area 2 (low conficence due to
occlusion), and Area 3 (low conficence due to sparsity of
the point cloud). Although all three areas appear as back-
ground from the Ego’s perspective, Area 1 is well-observed
and does not require collaboration, while Areas 2 and 3,
1To the best of our knowledge, the common V2X communication ap-
proach uses IEEE 802.11p-based DSRC (Dedicated Short-Range Commu-
nications) technology [1, 24], which provides an information transmission
rate of approximately 27 Mbps.
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
6834
