DA TA: Domain-And-Time Alignment for High-Quality Feature Fusion in
Collaborative Perception
Chengchang Tian1*, Jianwei Ma1*, Yan Huang1†, Zhanye Chen1†, Honghao Wei2, Hui Zhang1, Wei Hong1
1 Southeast University, Nanjing, China
2 Washington State University, Pullman, W A, USA
{chengchang tian, jianwei ma, yan huang, chenzhanye, huizhang, weihong }@seu.edu.cn
honghao.wei@wsu.edu
Abstract
Feature-level fusion shows promise in collaborative percep-
tion (CP) through balanced performance and communica-
tion bandwidth trade-off. However, its effectiveness crit-
ically relies on input feature quality. The acquisition of
high-quality features faces domain gaps from hardware di-
versity and deployment conditions, alongside temporal mis-
alignment from transmission delays. These challenges de-
grade feature quality with cumulative effects throughout
the collaborative network. In this paper, we present the
Domain-And-Time Alignment (DATA) network, designed
to systematically align features while maximizing their se-
mantic representations for fusion. Specifically, we pro-
pose a Consistency-preserving Domain Alignment Module
(CDAM) that reduces domain gaps through proximal-region
hierarchical downsampling and observability-constrained
discriminator. We further propose a Progressive Tempo-
ral Alignment Module (PTAM) to handle transmission de-
lays via multi-scale motion modeling and two-stage com-
pensation. Building upon the aligned features, an Instance-
focused Feature Aggregation Module (IFAM) is developed
to enhance semantic representations. Extensive experi-
ments demonstrate that DATA achieves state-of-the-art per-
formance on three typical datasets, maintaining robust-
ness with severe communication delays and pose errors.
The code will be released at https://github.com/
ChengchangTian/DATA.
1. Introduction
Collaborative perception (CP) [2, 6, 19] has emerged as
a crucial solution to overcome the inherent limitations of
single-agent perception [27, 32], such as limited percep-
tion range and occluded areas. By enabling multiple agents
1∗Equal contribution
2†Corresponding authors
Figure 1. (a) Domain gap. E.g., different structured and scattered
foreground patterns of different agents. (b) Temporal Misalignment.
E.g., communication latency in the collaboration process and the fol-
lowed observation misalignment between agents.
to share their own perceptual information, CP facilitates a
more comprehensive understanding of surroundings.
For CP, intermediate fusion [10, 17, 20, 21, 26, 31, 35],
which operates at the feature level for information sharing
and integration, has been extensively studied due to its bal-
anced trade-off between perception performance and com-
munication bandwidth. However, it is difficult to maintain
high-quality input features for fusion. In real-world de-
ployments, obtaining high-quality features during the fea-
ture acquisition phase is fraught with significant challenges
[34]. Hardware heterogeneity [16, 18, 31, 38] (e.g., LiDARs
with varying numbers of laser beams and diverse modes for
acquiring point clouds) and differences in agent conditions
(e.g., sensor mounting heights and angles) result in distinct
data distributions among agents. This divergence in data
among agents creates a domain gap in CP, as illustrated in
Figure 1(a). Furthermore, temporal delays [14, 27, 28, 39]
are introduced during communication transmission between
agents, as illustrated in Figure 1(b), causing the features of
This ICCV paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
28643
