DenoiseCP-Net: Efficient Collective Perception in Adverse Weather via
Joint LiDAR-Based 3D Object Detection and Denoising
Sven Teufel1, Dominique Mayer 1, J ¨org Gamerdinger 1 and Oliver Bringmann 1
Abstract— While automated vehicles hold the potential to
significantly reduce traffic accidents, their perception systems
remain vulnerable to sensor degradation caused by adverse
weather and environmental occlusions. Collective perception,
which enables vehicles to share information, offers a promising
approach to overcoming these limitations. However, to this date
collective perception in adverse weather is mostly unstudied.
Therefore, we conduct the first study of LiDAR-based collective
perception under diverse weather conditions and present a novel
multi-task architecture for LiDAR-based collective perception
under adverse weather. Adverse weather conditions can not
only degrade perception capabilities, but also negatively affect
bandwidth requirements and latency due to the introduced
noise that is also transmitted and processed. Denoising prior to
communication can effectively mitigate these issues. Therefore,
we propose DenoiseCP-Net, a novel multi-task architecture
for LiDAR-based collective perception under adverse weather
conditions. DenoiseCP-Net integrates voxel-level noise filtering
and object detection into a unified sparse convolution backbone,
eliminating redundant computations associated with two-stage
pipelines. This design not only reduces inference latency and
computational cost but also minimizes communication overhead
by removing non-informative noise. We extended the well-
known OPV2V dataset by simulating rain, snow, and fog using
our realistic weather simulation models. We demonstrate that
DenoiseCP-Net achieves near-perfect denoising accuracy in
adverse weather, reduces the bandwidth requirements by up
to 23.6 % while maintaining the same detection accuracy and
reducing the inference latency for cooperative vehicles.
I. I NTRODUCTION
The most likely cause of death for young people aged
5 to 29 are road traffic injuries. Especially in adverse
weather such as rain and snow, the crash and injury rate
can increase by 70 % to 80 % [1]. Automated vehicles aim
to reduce the number of accidents. In order to achieve this,
a comprehensive and correct perception of the environment
is required; however, adverse weather or occlusions degrade
the sensing capabilities of vehicle-local perception [2], [3].
Collective Perception (CP) using multiple distributed vehicles
is a promising approach to overcome the limitations of
vehicle-local perception. A major challenge in CP is the
exchange and fusion of information between different agents.
CP methods can be categorized into three classes based on the
shared information. Late fusion approaches use preprocessed
data and exchange object states, which results in a loss of
information. Early fusion uses raw sensor data for information
exchange, which exceeds current bandwidth limitations and
therefore can be considered as unsuitable in practice. The
1University of T¨ubingen, Faculty of Science, Department of Computer Sci-
ence, Embedded Systems {sven.teufel, dominique.mayer
joerg.gamerdinger, oliver.bringmann }
@uni-tuebingen.de
intermediate fusion uses features from neural networks as
information to exchange, this meets the communication
channel resources and reduced the loss of information due
to the pre-processing; however, for intermediate fusion all
cooperative agents must use the same backbone since it
otherwise suffers from a feature domain gap, this can be
considered as unpractical for real-world application. For
LiDAR-based collective perception, the utilization of sparse
voxel grids as environment representation as proposed in [4]
allows to efficiently exchange spatial information without a
significant loss in detail by discretizing point clouds into voxel
grids. In order to reduce the bandwidth requirement, only the
coordinates of voxels that contain points are transmitted,
omitting any additional features. Unfortunately, adverse
weather such as rain, snow, and fog leads to noise in the
point cloud [5]. This noise can not only negatively affect the
perceptual performance but also can lead to a higher number
of voxels which then increases the communication load with
unnecessary data being transmitted. Therefore, we propose
a novel denoising and fusion architecture for LiDAR-based
collective perception, called DenoiseCP-Net. DenoiseCP-Net
jointly fuses the collectively shared sparse voxel grids with
the local sensor data and simultaneously denoises the sparse
voxel grid created from the ego LiDAR sensor. DenoiseCP-
Net uses a shared backbone for both tasks, saving computation
and reducing latency compared to a two-stage approach.
Our main contributions are:
• We conduct the first study on the impact of rain, snow
and fog on LiDAR-based collective perception.
• We present a novel and effective multi-task architecture
for sparse voxel grid fusion in collective perception and
denoising of sparse voxel grids called DenoiseCP-Net.
• DenoiseCP-Net achieves strong robustness against ad-
verse weather conditions while simultaneously achieving
high denoising performance.
• DenoiseCP-Net can significantly reduce the communica-
tion load in adverse weather.
In Sec. II we present related work to our approach. Afterwards,
we introduce the utilized environment representation for
collective perception in Sec. III. In Sec. IV we present
the weather simulation models used to augment the dataset
with realistic weather conditions. Then we introduce the
DenoiseCP-Net architecture in Sec. V. After that, Sec VI
describes the conducted experiments including the augmented
datasets. The results are provided in Sec. VII. Finally, we
give a conclusion and outlook on future research.
arXiv:2507.06976v1  [cs.CV]  9 Jul 2025