DiffCP: Ultra-Low Bit Collaborative Perception via Diffusion Model
Ruiqing Mao 1, Haotian Wu 2, Yukuan Jia 1, Zhaojun Nan 1, Yuxuan Sun 3, Sheng Zhou 1,∗,
Deniz G ¨und¨uz2 and Zhisheng Niu 1
Abstract— Collaborative perception (CP) is emerging as a
promising solution to the inherent limitations of stand-alone
intelligence. However, current wireless communication systems
are unable to support feature-level and raw-level collaborative
algorithms due to their enormous bandwidth demands. In this
paper, we propose DiffCP, a novel CP paradigm that utilizes a
specialized diffusion model to efficiently compress the sensing
information of collaborators. By incorporating both geometric
and semantic conditions into the generative model, DiffCP
enables feature-level collaboration with an ultra-low communi-
cation cost, advancing the practical implementation of CP sys-
tems. This paradigm can be seamlessly integrated into existing
CP algorithms to enhance a wide range of downstream tasks.
Through extensive experimentation, we investigate the trade-
offs between communication, computation, and performance.
Numerical results demonstrate that DiffCP can significantly
reduce communication costs by 14.5-fold while maintaining the
same performance as the state-of-the-art algorithm.
I. I NTRODUCTION
The rapid development of intelligent unmanned systems
(IUSs) has led to the widespread integration of billions
of autonomous devices, such as autonomous vehicles and
intelligent robots, into our daily lives. However, single-
agent frameworks are constrained by inherent limitations,
such as sensor malfunctions, restricted perceptual ranges,
and environmental obstructions, which impair their ability
to meet the growing demands for safety and reliability,
particularly concerning perception range and accuracy.
The evolution of device-to-device (D2D) communica-
tion technologies, such as sidelink in cellular vehicle-to-
everything (C-V2X) networks, has enabled the sharing of
sensing information between agents via wireless channels, a
process known as collaborative perception (CP). Prior studies
have demonstrated the advantages of CP across various ap-
plications [1], [2]. However, in non-ideal wireless communi-
cation scenarios involving dense deployment, high mobility,
and obstructed environments, achieving high reliability and
low latency transmission for CP poses significant challenges.
Consequently, the maximum achievable data rate in current
C-V2X systems is approximately 10 Mbps at a distance of
10 meters, which drops to 5 Mbps at 100 meters [3].
Efforts to reduce the communication cost of perception
information have led to the development of various CP
∗Corresponding author: sheng.zhou@tsinghua.edu.cn
1Ruiqing Mao, Yukuan Jia, Zhaojun Nan, Sheng Zhou and Zhisheng
Niu are with Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua University,
Beijing 100084, China.
2Haotian Wu and Deniz G ¨und¨uz are with Department of Electrical and
Electronic Engineering, Imperial College London, London SW7 2AZ, U.K.
3Yuxuan Sun is with School of Electronic and Information Engineering,
Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China.
Fig. 1: An illustration of CP in IUSs. Compared with previ-
ous feature-level CP, the proposed DiffCP leverages the ego-
agent’s prior geometric to recover feature information from
the co-agent. This enables feature-level CP within object-
level data rate requirements, satisfying real-world wireless
communication constraints.
architectures [4]. As shown in Fig. 1, CP can be broadly
classified into three levels based on where the collaborative
data is transmitted and fused. Specifically, raw-level CP
methods [5] directly exchange raw data to retain detailed
information but require substantial bandwidth, demanding
approximately 360 Mbps for a 64-line LiDAR and 20 Mbps
for a single HD camera, far exceeding C-V2X channel
capacities. In contrast, object-level CP, like OptiMatch [6],
reduces bandwidth to around 150 Kbps by transmitting
detection results. Nevertheless, it heavily depends on the
individual detection capabilities of agents, thereby limiting
overall performance. Given the importance of intermediate
features in perception algorithms, recent research has shifted
towards feature-level CP. Approaches such as F-Cooper [7]
and V2VNet [8], compress raw data into perception-aware
features for communication. To address bandwidth con-
straints, various compression strategies, including channel
reduction [9], [10], feature downsampling [11]–[13], and
flow-based [14] or multi-round selective transmission [15],
have been proposed. However, these approaches remain
limited in either performance or bandwidth efficiency.
In this paper, we propose a novel CP paradigm based on
diffusion models, named DiffCP, which achieves feature-
level collaboration within object-level communication
costs. Motivated by the fact that sensor data from collab-
orative agents can be considered different perspectives of
the same scenario, DiffCP leverages the strong correlations
between sensor data (as two marked areas in the point clouds
in Fig. 1). The key idea behind DiffCP is to answer the
arXiv:2409.19592v1  [cs.CV]  29 Sep 2024