DSRC: Learning Density-Insensitive and Semantic-Aware Collaborative
Representation Against Corruptions
Jingyu Zhang1,2* , Yilei Wang1∗ , Lang Qian 1, Peng Sun3, Zengwen Li 4†,
Sudong Jiang4 , Maolin Liu 4 , Liang Song 1,2†
1 Academy for Engineering and Technology, Fudan University, Shanghai, China
2 Innovation Platform for Academicians of Hainan Province, Haikou, Hainan, China
3Duke Kunshan University, Suzhou, China
4Chongqing Changan Automobile Co., Ltd. Chongqing, China
{jingyuzhang22, yileiwang23}@m.fudan.edu.cn
Abstract
As a potential application of Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X)
communication, multi-agent collaborative perception has
achieved significant success in 3D object detection. While
these methods have demonstrated impressive results on stan-
dard benchmarks, the robustness of such approaches in
the face of complex real-world environments requires ad-
ditional verification. To bridge this gap, we introduce the
first comprehensive benchmark designed to evaluate the ro-
bustness of collaborative perception methods in the presence
of natural corruptions typical of real-world environments.
Furthermore, we propose DSRC, a robustness-enhanced
collaborative perception method aiming to learn Density-
insensitive and Semantic-aware collaborative Representation
against Corruptions. DSRC consists of two key designs:
i) a semantic-guided sparse-to-dense distillation frame-
work, which constructs multi-view dense objects painted by
ground truth bounding boxes to effectively learn density-
insensitive and semantic-aware collaborative representation;
ii) a feature-to-point cloud reconstruction approach to bet-
ter fuse critical collaborative representation across agents.
To thoroughly evaluate DSRC, we conduct extensive ex-
periments on real-world and simulated datasets. The results
demonstrate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art col-
laborative perception methods in both clean and corrupted
conditions.
Code — https://github.com/Terry9a/DSRC
Introduction
Perceiving environment accurately is crucial to ensure the
driving safety of autonomous vehicles. With recent advance-
ments in Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) communication tech-
nology and intelligent transportation systems, multi-agent
collaborative perception has emerged as a promising so-
lution. By exchanging perceptual information, agents can
achieve a comprehensive understanding of their surround-
ings and overcome limitations inherent in single-agent per-
ception, such as limited perception range and obstructed
*Equal contributions.
†Corresponding authors.
Copyright © 2025, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
Beam MissingClean
Motion BlurSnow
Figure 1: Visualization of typical corruption types in our
benchmark. Point cloud from different agents are shown in
different colors.
field of view. Recent researches (Wang et al. 2020; Xu et al.
2022b; Hu et al. 2022; Zhang et al. 2024a) have drawn
widespread attention to collaborative perception, particu-
larly in autonomous driving. Notably, LiDAR sensors have
emerged as a primary focus of state-of-the-art collaborative
perception methods (Xu et al. 2022a; Yang et al. 2023; Li
et al. 2021) because of their convenient information fusion
advantages.
Collaborative perception methods must operate reliably in
different geographical locations and different natural envi-
ronments to ensure the safety of autonomous driving. While
some works (Xu et al. 2022a; Wang et al. 2023a,c; Gu et al.
2023) achieve efficient multi-agent feature fusion through
well-designed mechanisms to enhance performance within
a single domain, the methods often fail in scenarios outside
of clean evaluation sets. Natural corruptions like adverse
weather and sensor malfunctions cause issues such as occlu-
sion, signal attenuation, and unpredictable reflections in Li-
DAR data, leading to loss or misinterpretation of perceptual
information. Furthermore, LiDAR’s inherent limitations in
capturing color and texture details hinder its generalization
capability. Corruption-induced beam loss or data jitter exac-
erbates semantic perception difficulties, such as object shape
and density. These impairments not only affect each agent’s
ability to accurately perceive the surrounding environment
The Thirty-Ninth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-25)
9942