ERMVP: Communication-Efﬁcient and Collaboration-Robust Multi-V ehicle
Perception in Challenging Environments
Jingyu Zhang1 Kun Y ang1 Yilei Wang1 Hanqi Wang1 Peng Sun2,∗ Liang Song1,∗
1Academy for Engineering and Technology, Fudan University 2Duke Kunshan University
{jingyuzhang22, yileiwang23 }@m.fudan.edu.cn, songl@m.fudan.edu.cn
Abstract
Collaborative perception enhances perception perfor-
mance by enabling autonomous vehicles to exchange com-
plementary information. Despite its potential to revolu-
tionize the mobile industry, challenges in various environ-
ments, such as communication bandwidth limitations, local-
ization errors and information aggregation inefﬁciencies,
hinder its implementation in practical applications. In this
work, we propose ERMVP , a communication- Efﬁcient and
collaboration-Robust Multi-Vehicle Perception method in
challenging environments. Speciﬁcally, ERMVP has three
distinct strengths: i) It utilizes the hierarchical feature sam-
pling strategy to abstract a representative set of feature vec-
tors, using less communication overhead for efﬁcient com-
munication; ii) It employs the sparse consensus features to
execute precise spatial location calibrations, effectively mit-
igating the implications of vehicle localization errors; iii) A
pioneering feature fusion and interaction paradigm is intro-
duced to integrate holistic spatial semantics among differ-
ent vehicles and data sources. To thoroughly validate our
method, we conduct extensive experiments on real-world
and simulated datasets. The results demonstrate that the
proposed ERMVP is signiﬁcantly superior to the state-of-
the-art collaborative perception methods.
1. Introduction
Autonomous vehicles are widely recognized as a valu-
able means to enhance road safety and trafﬁc efﬁciency.
Equipped with lidar, cameras, and other sensors, these ve-
hicles are capable of accurately sensing their surroundings
to ensure safe and reliable operation. However, the single-
vehicle perception system has inevitable drawbacks [ 26,
39], such as a limited sensor ﬁeld of view that can be eas-
ily obstructed and the challenge of detecting distant ob-
jects due to sparse and low-resolution data. Recently, the
*Corresponding authors. Our code is available at https://
github.com/Terry9a/ERMVP.
advances in vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communication tech-
nologies [12, 17, 36] and deep learning [4–6, 10, 16, 24, 45]
have spurred innovation and progress in the collaborative
perception technology. This technology allows connected
autonomous vehicles (CA Vs) to share sensory data, leading
to more comprehensive environmental perception.
Although collaborative perception technology shows
great potential in transforming the mobility industry, its
practical application faces several challenges, including
communication bandwidth limitations [ 15, 35], localiza-
tion errors [ 11, 25] and information aggregation inefﬁcien-
cies [ 38, 47]. In practical situations, wireless communi-
cation resource and reliability constraints severely ham-
per the efﬁcacy of delay-sensitive collaborative perception.
While recent works [ 15, 42] have achieved a balance be-
tween perception performance and communication band-
width through well-designed mechanisms, these methods
have their limitations because they primarily considering
information compression over spatial redundancy. This
narrow focus exacerbates performance degradation at high
compression ratios.
Further, complex dynamic environments lead to localiza-
tion errors, which result in inaccurate relative transform es-
timates and spatial feature misalignment. This relative pose
noise produces misleading features that adversely affect the
effectiveness of collaborative perception. Existing meth-
ods [ 25, 34] attempt to optimize the overall pose through
intensive computation, but the high latency makes them un-
suitable for real-time dynamic perception. Meanwhile, col-
laborative methods [ 3, 38, 41, 42, 46] only focus on ag-
gregated information, but overlook the inherent perceptual
strengths of ego vehicle. This paradigm is vulnerable to the
perturbations introduced by collaborative noise, including
asynchronous motion blur and inaccurate projections. Such
drawback becomes a bottleneck for achieving optimal per-
ceptual performance. In contrast, ego-centric features may
contain locally accurate spatial location information that is
not affected by collaborative noise. Therefore, a priority for
establishing a pragmatic collaborative perception system is
to effectively overcome the above challenges.
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
12575
