F-Cooper: Feature based Cooperative Perception for
Autonomous Vehicle Edge Computing System Using 3D Point
Clouds
Qi Chen, Xu Ma, Sihai Tang, Jingda Guo, Qing Yang, Song Fu
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
University of North Texas, Denton, TX, USA
{QiChen,XuMa,SihaiTang,JingdaGu}@my.unt.edu,{Qing.Yang,Song.Fu}@unt.edu
ABSTRACT
Autonomous vehicles are heavily reliant upon their sensors to per-
fect the perception of surrounding environments, however, with
thecurrentstateoftechnology,thedatawhichavehicleusesiscon-
fined to that from its own sensors. Data sharing between vehicles
and/or edge servers is limited by the available network bandwidth
and the stringent real-time constraints of autonomous driving ap-
plications.Toaddresstheseissues,weproposeapointcloudfeature
based cooperative perception framework (F-Cooper) for connected
autonomous vehicles to achieve a better object detection precision.
Not only will feature based data be sufficient for the training pro-
cess, we also use the features’ intrinsically small size to achieve
real-time edge computing, without running the risk of congesting
the network. Our experiment results show that by fusing features,
we are able to achieve a better object detection result, around 10%
improvement for detection within 20 meters and 30% for further
distances, as well as achieve faster edge computing with a low
communication delay, requiring 71 milliseconds in certain feature
selections. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to intro-
duce feature-level data fusion to connected autonomous vehicles
for the purpose of enhancing object detection and making real-
time edge computing on inter-vehicle data feasible for autonomous
vehicles.
KEYWORDS
Feature Fusion, Connected Autonomous Vehicle, Edge Computing
ACM Reference Format:
Qi Chen, Xu Ma, Sihai Tang, Jingda Guo, Qing Yang, Song Fu. 2019. F-
Cooper: Feature based Cooperative Perception for Autonomous Vehicle
Edge Computing System Using 3D Point Clouds. InSEC ’19: ACM/IEEE
Symposium on Edge Computing, November 7–9, 2019, Arlington, V A, USA.
ACM,NewYork,NY,USA,13pages.https://doi.org/10.1145/3318216.3363300
1 INTRODUCTION
Connected autonomous vehicles (CAV) provide a promising solu-
tion to improving road safety. This relies on vehicles being able
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
forprofitorcommercialadvantageandthatcopiesbearthisnoticeandthefullcitation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
mustbehonored.Abstractingwithcreditispermitted.Tocopyotherwise,orrepublish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
SEC ’19, November 7–9, 2019, Arlington, V A, USA
©2019 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-6733-2/19/11...$15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3318216.3363300
Car1 Car1
Car2
Figure 1: Occlusion and truncation situations naturally oc-
cur in point clouds data.
to perceive road conditions and detect objects precisely in real-
time. However, accurate and real-time perception is challenging
in the field. It involves processing high-volume and continuous
data streams from various sensors with strict timing requirements.
Moreover, the perception accuracy of a vehicle is often affected
by the limited view and scope of the sensors. Edge computing can
help CAVs achieve better situational awareness via combining and
processing information collected from multiple CAVs with more
powerful machine learning technologies [32, 35]. The goal of inte-
grating edge computing and CAVs is to efficiently analyze massive
amount of data in real time under limited network bandwidth.
Anautonomousvehicleedgecomputingsystemconsistsofthree
layers: vehicle, edge, and cloud [18]. Each autonomous vehicle is
equipped with onboard edge device(s) that integrates the needed
functional modules for autonomous driving, including localization,
perception, path planning, and vehicle control. Autonomous vehi-
cles can communicate with roadside edge servers, and eventually
reachthecloudthroughwirelessnetworks,e.g.,thededicatedshort
range communication (DSRC) [7], 5G or millimeter-wave commu-
nication technologies [34]. This provides a perfect opportunity
to develop a cooperative perception system in which vehicles ex-
change their data with nearby edge servers. It is here that data
are fused and processed to further extend the individual vehicle’s
perception range; beyond line-of-sight and beyond field-of-view.
1.1 Motivation
Having a single source of data input for autonomous vehicles is
risky in real-world environments, as sensors are just another com-
ponent of the vehicle that is susceptible to failure. In addition,
sensors are also limited by their physical capabilities such as scan
frequency, range, and resolution. Perception gets even worse when
88