Flow-Based Feature Fusion for Vehicle-Infrastructure
Cooperative 3D Object Detection
Haibao Yu1,2, Yingjuan Tang2,3, Enze Xie1, Jilei Mao2, Ping Luo1,4, Zaiqing Nie2∗
1The University of Hong Kong
2Institute for AI Industry Research (AIR), Tsinghua University
3Beijing Institute of Technology 4Shanghai AI Laboratory
Abstract
Cooperatively utilizing both ego-vehicle and infrastructure sensor data can signifi-
cantly enhance autonomous driving perception abilities. However, the uncertain
temporal asynchrony and limited communication conditions can lead to fusion
misalignment and constrain the exploitation of infrastructure data. To address
these issues in vehicle-infrastructure cooperative 3D (VIC3D) object detection, we
propose the Feature Flow Net (FFNet), a novel cooperative detection framework.
FFNet is a flow-based feature fusion framework that uses a feature flow predic-
tion module to predict future features and compensate for asynchrony. Instead of
transmitting feature maps extracted from still-images, FFNet transmits feature flow,
leveraging the temporal coherence of sequential infrastructure frames. Furthermore,
we introduce a self-supervised training approach that enables FFNet to generate
feature flow with feature prediction ability from raw infrastructure sequences. Ex-
perimental results demonstrate that our proposed method outperforms existing
cooperative detection methods while only requiring about 1/100 of the transmission
cost of raw data and covers all latency in one model on the DAIR-V2X dataset.
The code is available at https://github.com/haibao-yu/FFNet-VIC3D.
1 Introduction
103 104 105 106
Transmission Cost (Byte)
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63BEV mAP (IoU=0.5)
Early Fusion
Late Fusion DiscoNet
V2VNet
FFNet (Ours)
FFNet-C1 (Ours)
Figure 1: Performancevs. Transmission Cost on DAIR-V2X
Dataset. All results are reported with 200ms latency. FFNet
achieves a new state-of-the-art 62.87% mAP@BEV while only
requiring about 1/100 of the transmission cost of early fusion.
Accurate 3D object detection is a critical task in
autonomous driving as it provides crucial informa-
tion about the location and classification of surround-
ing obstacles. Traditional 3D object detection meth-
ods rely on onboard sensor data from the ego ve-
hicle, which has a limited perception field and of-
ten fails in blind or long-range zones, resulting in
safety concerns. To address these challenges, vehicle-
infrastructure cooperative autonomous driving has
gained much attention, particularly using infrastruc-
ture sensors like cameras and LiDARs, which are
usually installed higher than ego vehicles, providing
a broader field of view (40; 42; 25; 24). By utilizing
additional infrastructure sensor data, it is possible
to obtain more meaningful information and improve
autonomous driving perception ability. In this paper,
we focus on solving the vehicle-infrastructure cooperative 3D (VIC3D) object detection problem to
enhance the safety and performance of autonomous driving systems in challenging traffic scenarios.
∗Corresponding author. Work done while at AIR.
37th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2023).