3054 IEEE ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION LETTERS, VOL. 7, NO. 2, APRIL 2022
Keypoints-Based Deep Feature Fusion
for Cooperative V ehicle Detection of
Autonomous Driving
Y unshuang Y uan , Hao Cheng, and Monika Sester
Abstract—Sharing collective perception messages (CPM) be-
tween vehicles is investigated to decrease occlusions so as to im-
prove the perception accuracy and safety of autonomous driving.
However, highly accurate data sharing and low communication
overhead is a big challenge for collective perception, especially
when real-time communication is required among connected and
automated vehicles. In this letter, we propose an efﬁcient and
effective keypoints-based deep feature fusion framework built
on the 3D object detector PV-RCNN, called Fusion PV-RCNN
(FPV-RCNN for short), for collective perception. We introduce a
high-performance bounding box proposal matching module and a
keypoints selection strategy to compress the CPM size and solve
the multi-vehicle data fusion problem. Besides, we also propose
an effective localization error correction module based on the
maximum consensus principle to increase the robustness of the
data fusion. Compared to a bird’s-eye view (BEV) keypoints fea-
ture fusion, FPV-RCNN achieves improved detection accuracy by
about 9% at a high evaluation criterion (IoU 0.7) on the synthetic
dataset COMAP dedicated to collective perception. In addition,
its performance is comparable to two raw data fusion baselines
that have no data loss in sharing. Moreover, our method also
signiﬁcantly decreases the CPM size to less than 0.3 KB, and is
thus about 50 times smaller than the BEV feature map sharing
used in previous works. Even with further decreased CPM feature
channels, i. e., from 128 to 32, the detection performance does
not show apparent drops. The code of our method is available at
https://github.com/YuanYunshuang/FPV_RCNN.
Index Terms—Sensor fusion, sensor networks, object detection,
segmentation and categorization.
I. I NTRODUCTION
U
NDERSTANDING the surrounding environment is one
of the most important tasks of autonomous driving, es-
pecially for those automated vehicles (A V) driving in complex
real-world situations. Such an A V is normally equipped with
different sensors like cameras, LiDARs, and Sonars in order to
sense the world [1]. However, perceiving the environment only
Manuscript received September 9, 2021; accepted December 29, 2021. Date
of publication January 14, 2022; date of current version February 4, 2022. This
letter was recommended for publication by Associate Editor G. Costante and
Editor E. Marchand upon evaluation of the reviewers’ comments. This work
was supported by the Projects DFG RTC1931 SocialCars and DFG GRK2159
i.c.sens. (Corresponding author: Hao Cheng.)
The authors are with the Institute of Cartography and Geoinfor-
matics, Leibniz University Hannover, 30167 Hannover, Germany (e-
mail: yunshuang.yuan@ikg.uni-hannover.de; hao.cheng@ikg.uni-hannover.de;
monika.sester@ikg.uni-hannover.de).
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/LRA.2022.3143299
using the data collected by these sensors mounted on a single
ego vehicle has many limitations, such as occlusion, limited
sensor observation range, and noise. In this regard, cooperative
perception based on connected and automated vehicles (CA Vs)
can effectively mitigate these problems by sharing sensed infor-
mation collected from different viewing directions of multiple
A Vs in a network. The perceived information is shared among
vehicles via Collective Perception Messages (CPMs). In this
way, the accuracy and reliability requirements of the sensors on
each vehicle can be relaxed, and therefore the price of each A V is
lowered as well [2]. However, the challenging part of cooperative
perception is deﬁning the information to be shared and fusing
the shared information via a limited communication network
bandwidth. Hence, the goal is to obtain the best perception
performance with the least data transmission in the network of
cooperative agents.
Accurate data sharing and low communication overhead is
still a bottleneck for cooperative vehicle detection demanding
real-time communication in autonomous driving. In theory, shar-
ing raw data gives the best performance because no information
is lost. But this can easily congest the communication network
with heavy data loads. In contrast, sharing the fully processed
data, e.g., detected objects, needs fewer communication re-
sources. Nevertheless, object-wise fusion is very sensitive to the
localization noise of the agents. Matching the detected objects
coming from different agents can be very difﬁcult, especially
those that are inaccurately detected by distant sensors. As a trade-
off, deep features extracted by deep neural networks from the
raw data can decrease the amount of data to be shared and at the
same time maintain a relatively high performance of data fusion.
Previous works [3]–[5] achieve this by contracting bird’s-eye
view (BEV) deep features maps which are, however, very sparse
and can be further compressed to avoid redundancy. Moreover,
due to the low resolution, fusing such feature maps may even
fail to predict accurate bounding boxes. To this end, this letter
proposes a more robust deep feature sharing and fusion frame-
work by extending the established framework PV -RCNN [6] to
colletive perception scenarios. Our framework uses PointNet [7]
and point set abstraction [8] to aggregate the information from
multi-scale receptive ﬁelds for the selected high accurate 3D
keypoints from different point clouds, which are then shared and
fused to generate more accurate detection. In comparison to the
BEV keypoints fusion, with reduced communication overhead
our 3D keypoints fusion still achieves higher detection accuracy.
2377-3766 © 2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: UNIVERSITY OF TWENTE.. Downloaded on November 22,2023 at 14:07:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 