Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2024
AN EXTENSIBLE FRAMEWORK FOR OPEN HETEROGE -
NEOUS COLLABORATIVE PERCEPTION
Yifan Lu1,4, Yue Hu1,4, Yiqi Zhong2, Dequan Wang1,3, Yanfeng Wang1,3, Siheng Chen1,3,4B,
1 Shanghai Jiao Tong University,2 University of Southern California, 3 Shanghai AI Lab
4 Multi-Agent Governance & Intelligence Crew (MAGIC)
1{yifan lu, 18671129361, dequanwang, wangyanfeng, sihengc }@sjtu.edu.cn
2 yiqizhon@usc.edu
ABSTRACT
Collaborative perception aims to mitigate the limitations of single-agent percep-
tion, such as occlusions, by facilitating data exchange among multiple agents.
However, most current works consider a homogeneous scenario where all agents
use identity sensors and perception models. In reality, heterogeneous agent types
may continually emerge and inevitably face a domain gap when collaborating
with existing agents. In this paper, we introduce a new open heterogeneous
problem: how to accommodate continually emerging new heterogeneous agent
types into collaborative perception, while ensuring high perception performance
and low integration cost? To address this problem, we propose HEterogeneous
ALliance (HEAL), a novel extensible collaborative perception framework. HEAL
first establishes a unified feature space with initial agents via a novel multi-scale
foreground-aware Pyramid Fusion network. When heterogeneous new agents
emerge with previously unseen modalities or models, we align them to the es-
tablished unified space with an innovative backward alignment. This step only
involves individual training on the new agent type, thus presenting extremely low
training costs and high extensibility. To enrich agents’ data heterogeneity, we
bring OPV2V-H, a new large-scale dataset with more diverse sensor types. Ex-
tensive experiments on OPV2V-H and DAIR-V2X datasets show that HEAL sur-
passes SOTA methods in performance while reducing the training parameters by
91.5% when integrating 3 new agent types. We further implement a comprehen-
sive codebase at: https://github.com/yifanlu0227/HEAL.
1 I NTRODUCTION
Multi-agent collaborative perception promotes better and more holistic perception by enabling mul-
tiple agents to share complementary perceptual information with each other (Wang et al., 2020; Xu
et al., 2022c; Li et al., 2021). This task can fundamentally overcome several long-standing issues
in single-agent perception, such as occlusion (Wang et al., 2020). The related methods and systems
have tremendous potential in many applications, including multi-UA Vs (unmanned aerial vehicles)
for search and rescue (Hu et al., 2022), multi-robot automation and mapping (Carpin, 2008), and
vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) and vehicle-to-everything (V2X) collaboration.
In this emerging field, most current works (Lu et al., 2023; Lei et al., 2022) make a plausible, yet
oversimplified assumption: all the agents have to be homogeneous; that is, all agents’ perception
systems use the same sensor modality and share the same detection model. However, in the real
world, the modalities and models of agents are likely to be heterogeneous, and new agent types may
continuously emerge. Due to the rapid iteration of sensor technologies and perception algorithms,
coupled with the various attitudes of agent owners (like autonomous driving companies) towards col-
laborative perception, it is inherently challenging to definitively determine all agent types from the
outset. When a heterogeneous agent, which has never appeared in the training set, wishes to join the
collaboration, it inevitably encounters a domain gap with the existing agents. This gap substantially
impedes its capability to fuse features with the existing collaborative agents and markedly limits the
extensibility of the collaborative perception. Thus, the problem of open heterogeneous collabora-
tive perception arises: how to accommodate continually emerging new agent types into the existing
collaborative perception while ensuring high perception performance and low integration cost?
1
arXiv:2401.13964v3  [cs.CV]  1 Apr 2024