HM-ViT: Hetero-modal Vehicle-to-Vehicle Cooperative Perception with Vision
Transformer
Hao Xiang1, Runsheng Xu1, Jiaqi Ma1
1University of California, Los Angeles
{haxiang, rxx3386, jiaqima }@g.ucla.edu
Abstract
Vehicle-to-Vehicle technologies have enabled au-
tonomous vehicles to share information to see through
occlusions, greatly enhancing perception performance.
Nevertheless, existing works all focused on homogeneous
traffic where vehicles are equipped with the same type of
sensors, which significantly hampers the scale of collab-
oration and benefit of cross-modality interactions. In this
paper, we investigate the multi-agent hetero-modal cooper-
ative perception problem where agents may have distinct
sensor modalities. We present HM-ViT, the first unified
multi-agent hetero-modal cooperative perception frame-
work that can collaboratively predict 3D objects for highly
dynamic Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) collaborations with
varying numbers and types of agents. To effectively fuse
features from multi-view images and LiDAR point clouds,
we design a novel heterogeneous 3D graph transformer
to jointly reason inter-agent and intra-agent interactions.
The extensive experiments on the V2V perception dataset
OPV2V demonstrate that the HM-ViT outperforms SOTA
cooperative perception methods for V2V hetero-modal
cooperative perception. Our code will be released at
https://github.com/XHwind/HM-ViT .
1. Introduction
Recent advances in Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) com-
munication technology and intelligent transportation sys-
tems [13, 31, 27, 14, 7, 19, 28, 51, 53, 52] have allowed au-
tonomous vehicles (A Vs) to share sensory information, en-
abling them to perceive their surroundings better [3, 32, 54].
With the rapid growth of autonomous driving, V2V percep-
tion systems have the potential to be deployed at scale and
create a safer transportation system. Cooperative perception
systems, as shown in recent studies [49, 48, 40], can intelli-
gently aggregate features from multiple vehicles within the
communication range to enhance visual reasoning and over-
all performance.
Agent3
Agent2
Agent1
Figure 1: Illustration of multi-agent hetero-modal V2V sys-
tems where each agent may be equipped with either LiDAR
or multi-view cameras.
Despite the rapid growth in this field, previous stud-
ies [49, 40, 46, 22, 37, 47] have primarily focused on ho-
mogeneous multi-agent cooperative perception, where all
agents are equipped with the same type of sensors. In re-
ality, however, agents may have different sensor modalities
(hetero-modality) due to the cost and sensor preferences of
ADS developers and car makers. As shown in Fig. 1, some
agents are equipped with only LiDARs (LiDAR agents),
while others only have multiple cameras (camera agents).
Enabling collaboration between these heterogeneous agents
could improve the sensing capability by allowing agents to
see through occlusions and increase the scale and reliabil-
ity of V2V systems. Additionally, LiDAR agents can pro-
vide accurate geometric information, while camera agents
can provide rich semantic context. Thus, the collaboration
between these agents could leverage the distinct but com-
plementary environment attributes captured by each sensor
modality to enhance the V2V perception systems. Further-
more, compared with the single-agent solution where mul-
tiple LiDARs and cameras are installed in a single vehi-
cle, distributing different types of sensors across distinct
agents could also potentially decrease the costs for each
agent while still achieving satisfying performance. Never-
theless, whether, when, and how multi-agent hetero-modal
V2V cooperation can benefit the perception system of het-
erogeneous traffic has not yet been studied.
This ICCV paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
284
