Hybrid Robust Collaborative Perception with LiDAR-4D Radar Fusion under
Adverse Weather Conditions
Yuquan Yang1, Hui Zhang1,2*, Wenyu Lu1, Ziyin Zhang1, Chuanming Zhang1, Xiaohua Xu1
1School of Computer Science and Technology, University of Science and Technology of China
2Anhui Provincial Key Laboratory of High Performance Computing
Abstract
Current collaborative perception systems have significantly
improved 3D object detection performance. However,
widely used LiDAR and camera systems often suffer perfor-
mance degradation under adverse weather conditions. The
weather-robust 4D radar provides a promising solution to
address this challenge. Nevertheless, the effective fusion of
sparse 4D radar measurements with degraded LiDAR data
remains a significant challenge due to cross-modal corrup-
tion and information loss. In this work, we propose a novel
hybrid robust collaborative perception framework (HRCP),
designed to improve the collaborative perception perfor-
mance under adverse weather conditions through LiDAR-
4D radar fusion. Specifically, we introduce a hybrid col-
laboration strategy that considers their distinct physical
properties and differently processes them during informa-
tion transmission. Additionally, we propose a bidirectional
cross-modal gating (BCMG) module that enables LiDAR
and 4D radar to mutually validate feature reliability, en-
suring consistent cross-modal representation, and an adap-
tive feature enhancement (AFE) module that enables com-
prehensive refinement of degraded and suppressed regions
to mitigate information loss. Extensive experimental results
demonstrate that our method outperforms previous state-of-
the-art approaches under adverse weather conditions.
1. Introduction
Perceiving complex driving environments is crucial to en-
sure the driving safety of agents (e.g., autonomous vehi-
cles). With advancements in localization and perception
technologies, even single-agent perception systems have
demonstrated impressive performance in 3D object detec-
tion tasks [18, 42, 45]. Nevertheless, such systems suffer
from inherent limitations, including occlusions and reduced
detection accuracy for distant object instances. Collabora-
tive perception has gained increasing attention as a promis-
*Corresponding author. fzhh@ustc.edu.cn
Naive fusion Denoise
Validation Refinement
(a) Naive fusion method. (b) Denoising-based method.
(c) Our method.
Cross-modal 
corruption
Degraded 
LiDAR feature
Sparse 4D 
radar feature
Information loss
Figure 1. Different fusion methods. The red, orange, green regions
are detected and located within the ground-truth bounding boxes
from LiDAR, 4D radar and the fused feature, respectively. The re-
gions indicated in the corresponding light color are false positives.
ing solution. It leverages vehicle-to-everything (V2X) com-
munication to enable agents to share perception informa-
tion, thereby achieving broader and more comprehensive
environmental awareness [4, 17, 30, 40].
Depending on the stage of information transmission,
collaborative perception modes can mainly be categorized
into early fusion [3], intermediate fusion [2], and late fu-
sion [35]. Current research in collaborative perception pre-
dominantly relies on LiDAR [23, 38, 41, 44] or LiDAR-
camera fusion [28, 29, 34, 46], with the majority of existing
approaches adopting intermediate fusion strategy to achieve
a trade-off between detection performance and transmission
overhead. However, both modalities are susceptible to envi-
ronmental degradation, particularly under adverse weather
conditions. Under such conditions, sensor inputs undergo
various degradations, resulting in missing or false features.
Crucially, their shared vulnerability to environmental inter-
ference may lead to simultaneous failure in critical scenar-
ios, thereby compromising the robustness of the percep-
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
 Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
24237
