INSTINCT: Instance-Level Interaction Architecture for Query-Based
Collaborative Perception
Yunjiang Xu1, Lingzhi Li1*, Jin Wang2*, Yupeng Ouyang1, Benyuan Yang2
1School of Computer Science and Technology, Soochow University
2School of Future Science and Engineering, Soochow University
{yjxu95, ouyangchina1 }@gmail.com, {lilingzhi, wjin1985, byyang }@suda.edu.cn
Abstract
Collaborative perception systems overcome single-vehicle
limitations in long-range detection and occlusion scenar-
ios by integrating multi-agent sensory data, improving ac-
curacy and safety. However, frequent cooperative inter-
actions and real-time requirements impose stringent band-
width constraints. Previous works proves that query-
based instance-level interaction reduces bandwidth de-
mands and manual priors, however, LiDAR-focused im-
plementations in collaborative perception remain under-
developed, with performance still trailing state-of-the-
art approaches. To bridge this gap, we propose IN-
STINCT (INSTance-level INteraCtion Archi Tecture), a
novel collaborative perception framework featuring three
core components: 1) a quality-aware filtering mechanism
for high-quality instance feature selection; 2) a dual-
branch detection routing scheme to decouple collaboration-
irrelevant and collaboration-relevant instances; and 3)
a Cross Agent Local Instance Fusion module to aggre-
gate local hybrid instance features. Additionally, we en-
hance the ground truth (GT) sampling technique to facil-
itate training with diverse hybrid instance features. Ex-
tensive experiments across multiple datasets demonstrate
that INSTINCT achieves superior performance. Specifi-
cally, our method achieves an improvement in accuracy
13.23%/33.08% in DAIR-V2X and V2V4Real while reduc-
ing the communication bandwidth to 1/281 and 1/264 com-
pared to state-of-the-art methods. The code is available at
https://github.com/CrazyShout/INSTINCT.
1. Introduction
Perception is critical in autonomous driving, providing ac-
curate inputs for decision-making and control. LiDAR has
emerged as a key sensor for object detection, thanks to its
exceptional 3D perception capabilities [11, 26, 27]. How-
*Corresponding author.
Much less communciation volume
Sparse Features Interaction
Fused 
Features
Stronger performance
......
.........
.........
INSTINCT: Instance Interation
...
...
...
INSTINCT: Instance Interation
.........
......
Single queries
Fused queries
Figure 1. By implementing the innovative instance interaction ar-
chitecture, INSTINCT demonstrates superior performance while
operating under lower bandwidth constraints.
ever, traditional single-agent perception systems are con-
strained by limited sensing range and inherent sensor defi-
ciencies, leading to blind spots in obstructed scenarios and
adverse weather conditions, posing significant safety risks.
Multi-view and multi-agent collaborative perception ad-
dresses these limitations by utilizing distributed sensor net-
works. For example, infrastructure-based sensors, such as
cameras and LiDAR, typically offer higher resolution, im-
proved accuracy, and wider coverage, enabling effective de-
tection of distant objects. Currently, collaborative percep-
tion methods are classified into early fusion, intermediate
fusion, and late fusion, with intermediate fusion showing
the greatest potential. Notably, extensive research has fo-
cused on Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) systems [16, 28, 29],
integrating vehicle and infrastructure data to significantly
enhance perception performance.
However, as shown in Fig.1, the requirement for real-
time perception ( ≥10Hz) poses a severe challenge to
communication bandwidth. Traditional intermediate fu-
sion methods directly transmit complete feature maps
[19, 24, 29], resulting in enormous bandwidth pressure.
Where2comm [6] filters key information by constructing re-
quest and requirement graphs, and CodeFilling [7] further
This ICCV paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
25464
