A Survey on Intermediate Fusion Methods for
Collaborative Perception Categorized by Real
World Challenges
Melih Yazgan†‡ *, Thomas Graf ‡*, Min Liu ‡*, Tobias Fleck †‡ and J. Marius Z ¨ollner†‡
†FZI Research Center for Information Technology, Germany
‡Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Germany
Abstract—This survey analyzes intermediate fusion methods
in collaborative perception for autonomous driving, categorized
by real-world challenges. We examine various methods, detail-
ing their features and the evaluation metrics they employ. The
focus is on addressing challenges like transmission efficiency, lo-
calization errors, communication disruptions, and heterogeneity.
Moreover, we explore strategies to counter adversarial attacks
and defenses, as well as approaches to adapt to domain shifts.
The objective is to present an overview of how intermedi-
ate fusion methods effectively meet these diverse challenges,
highlighting their role in advancing the field of collaborative
perception in autonomous driving.
Index Terms—Autonomous driving, collaborative perception,
intermediate fusion, V2X communication
I. I NTRODUCTION
Highly automated vehicles greatly benefit from their many
cameras and 3D sensors. While individual perception in-
tegrates outputs from various sensors on the ego vehicle
for independent object detection [1], it faces constraints
in complex scenarios characterized by occlusions, distant
objects, and sensor noise [2]. Collaborative perception can
mitigate these limitations by gathering additional perceptual
information from other vehicles and infrastructure, a process
facilitated by Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) communication
methods [3]. This includes Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) [4]
and interactions with roadside infrastructures, referred to as
Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I) [5], both of which contribute
to the optimization of safety, reliability, and efficiency in
autonomous driving [6].
To implement collaborative perception, it is crucial to
integrate data from collaborators into the ego vehicle through
fusion techniques. There are three main fusion types: Early
Fusion, Late Fusion, and Intermediate Fusion. Early fusion
involves sharing raw sensing data at the input level into
a unified coordinate system [7]. Although this approach
ensures a high level of accuracy, the volume of data to
be transmitted is excessively large and sensitive to noise
and delay [8]. Realizing robust raw data fusion by using
current V2X communication capabilities is impossible. Late
fusion methods transmit detection results, representing the
output of deep learning models [9]. This approach minimizes
communication overhead due to the reduced data size, but
* These authors contributed equally.
the associated gains in detection accuracy are constrained.
In intermediate fusion method, feature maps generated by
deep learning models are shared [10]. This feature-level
sharing approach enables achieving a remarkably high level
of accuracy, accompanied by a reduction in communication
cost [4]. Moreover, the shared intermediate features exhibit
increased resilience to GPS inaccuracies and communication
latencies [8], [11].
Previous research [12]–[14] have provided overviews of
various methods and datasets related to collaborative percep-
tion. However, these works cover a broad spectrum of topics
and deal with individual concepts only on the surface.
This work focuses on intermediate-level collaborative per-
ception methods and provides a categorized overview of these
methods into real-world challenges.
The paper is organized as follows: Section II systemati-
cally analyzes the challenges, and presenting state-of-the-art
collaboration methods in Tables I-VI. Section III concludes
with a summary and discussion about open challenges for
future research.
II. C HALLENGES AND GAPS
A. Transmission Efficiency
Addressing transmission issues due to bandwidth and
computing limitations in collaborative perception is crucial.
Recent advancements, presented in Table I, focus on reducing
communication bandwidth and transmission latency while
maintaining detection performance, achieved through com-
pression methods, selective communication, or a combination
of both. Collaborative perception generally requires trade-
offs between detection quality and the needed transmission
bandwidth.
Compression Methods try to condense the raw input
data into an intermediate representation that still encodes the
necessary information to perform a downstream task, e.g.,
object detection. Compression models are typically evalu-
ated by investigating two metrics in parallel: a downstream
task metric like the object detection quality and the data
transmission size. While data transmission size is sometimes
represented on an absolute(logarithmic) scale for visualiza-
tion purposes [4], [16], the actual metrics of importance
are the Average Byte (AB) and the compression ratio. The
AB metric, calculated by representing each element in the
transmitted data as a 32-bit float, offers a precise measure of
arXiv:2404.16139v2  [cs.CV]  28 Apr 2024