mmCooper: A Multi-agent Multi-stage Communication-efﬁcient and
Collaboration-robust Cooperative Perception Framework
Bingyi Liu1, Jian Teng1, Hongfei Xue 2*, Enshu Wang3*, Chuanhui Zhu 1,P uW a n g2, Libing Wu3
1Wuhan University Of Technology, 2University of North Carolina at Charlotte, 3Wuhan University
{byliu, tengjian, zhuchuanhui }@whut.edu.cn,
{hongfei.xue, Pu.Wang }@charlotte.edu, {wanges17, wu }@whu.edu.cn
Abstract
Collaborative perception signiﬁcantly enhances individ-
ual vehicle perception performance through the exchange
of sensory information among agents. However , real-
world deployment faces challenges due to bandwidth con-
straints and inevitable calibration errors during informa-
tion exchange. To address these issues, we propose mm-
Cooper , a novel multi- agent, multi-st age, communication-
efﬁcient, and collaboration-robust cooperative perception
framework. Our framework leverages a multi-stage collab-
oration strategy that dynamically and adaptively balances
intermediate- and late-stage information to share among
agents, enhancing perceptual performance while maintain-
ing communication efﬁciency. To support robust collabora-
tion despite potential misalignments and calibration errors,
our framework prevents misleading low-conﬁdence sensing
information from transmission and reﬁnes the received de-
tection results from collaborators to improve accuracy. The
extensive evaluation results on both real-world and sim-
ulated datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the mm-
Cooper framework and its components.
1. Introduction
With the advancement of autonomous driving systems [ 19,
57], perception devices such as cameras and LiDARs have
been widely deployed. Although perception technolo-
gies have witnessed rapid advancements driven by deep
learning-based algorithms, the traditional single-vehicle
perception paradigms [ 23, 30, 52] cannot meet the safety
and reliability requirements of autonomous vehicles due to
unavoidable factors such as object occlusion and limitations
in detection range [ 1, 6, 14, 27, 61].
Beneﬁting from infrastructure improvements and the ad-
vancement of Internet of V ehicles (IoVs) technologies like
V2X [ 25, 26], autonomous vehicles can achieve multi-
*Corresponding authors. Our code is available at https : / /
github.com/tengjjj/mmCooper.
vehicle collaborative perception by sharing perception in-
formation [5, 47], which signiﬁcantly enhances the perfor-
mance of perception systems. Although cooperative per-
ception has made progress recently, its practical deployment
still faces challenges such as communication resource con-
straints [ 8, 13], localization errors [ 31, 34], and low infor-
mation fusion efﬁciency [ 46, 55].
In cooperative perception systems, the effectiveness of
fusion strategies signiﬁcantly affects both perception per-
formance and communication efﬁciency. The fusion strate-
gies can be divided into three categories: early, interme-
diate, and late fusion methods. Speciﬁcally, early fusion
methods [7, 61] aggregate raw sensor observations from all
agents, providing abundant information but requiring im-
mense bandwidth, making this approach costly for com-
munication. Intermediate fusion methods [ 8, 13, 53–55]
partially mitigate this issue by sharing encoded features
rather than raw data to reduce communication overhead.
However, transmitting the feature map of the entire sens-
ing scenario still results in substantial bandwidth consump-
tion [ 13]. Late fusion methods [ 38, 40] on the other hand,
minimize communication demands by sharing lightweight
perception results among agents. However, this approach is
highly sensitive to environmental noise, as even minor dis-
turbances can degrade collaborative quality [ 31]. Overall,
these above single-stage cooperative perception approaches
face challenges in managing the trade-off between percep-
tion accuracy and communication efﬁciency, raising a com-
pelling question: Can we improve the perception perfor-
mance while preserving communication efﬁciency by strate-
gically sharing information across multiple stages to har-
ness the strengths of each fusion stage?
In addition, the data exchanged by agents inevitably ex-
periences misalignment and contains calibration errors dur-
ing the synchronization process due to communication de-
lays and pose noise [ 15, 41]. These calibration errors can
produce misleading features and proposals in subsequent
steps, thereby affecting the performance of the perception
system. While existing intermediate fusion methods at-
This ICCV paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
28396
