Multi-agent Collaborative Perception
via Motion-aware Robust Communication Network
Shixin Hong1, Yu Liu2†, Zhi Li1, Shaohui Li1, You He2
1Shenzhen International Graduate School, Tsinghua University
2Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua University
hsx22@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn, liuyu77360132@126.com,
{zhilizl, lishaohui}@sz.tsinghua.edu.cn, heyou@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn
Abstract
Collaborative perception allows for information shar-
ing between multiple agents, such as vehicles and infras-
tructure, to obtain a comprehensive view of the environ-
ment through communication and fusion. Current research
on multi-agent collaborative perception systems often as-
sumes ideal communication and perception environments
and neglects the effect of real-world noise such as pose
noise, motion blur, and perception noise. To address this
gap, in this paper, we propose a novel motion-aware ro-
bust communication network (MRCNet) that mitigates noise
interference and achieves accurate and robust collabora-
tive perception. MRCNet consists of two main components:
multi-scale robust fusion (MRF) addresses pose noise by de-
veloping cross-semantic multi-scale enhanced aggregation
to fuse features of different scales, while motion enhanced
mechanism (MEM) captures motion context to compensate
for information blurring caused by moving objects. Exper-
imental results on popular collaborative 3D object detec-
tion datasets demonstrate that MRCNet outperforms com-
peting methods in noisy scenarios with improved perception
performance using less bandwidth. Our code will be re-
leased at https://github.com/IndigoChildren/collaborative-
perception-MRCNet.
1. Introduction
Collaborative perception enables information sharing
among multiple agents, including vehicles and infrastruc-
ture, to provide a comprehensive view of the environment
through information communication and fusion [37]. This
helps individual autonomous vehicles to tackle challenging
perception scenarios, such as physical occlusion or long-
range detection [27]. Collaborative perception technology
has gained significant attention due to its advantages [20].
Previous works on multi-agent collaborative perception
†Corresponding author: Yu Liu.
systems focus on improving perception performance by de-
signing superior fusion modules [2, 14, 29, 35] and effec-
tive communication strategies [8, 24, 33]. For example, the
CoBEVT [39] framework uses sparse transformers [32] to
capture local and global spatial interactions across agents.
The UMC [34] framework optimises communication by us-
ing a two-stage entropy-based selection mechanism. How-
ever, these frameworks assume ideal communication and
perception environments [7], while real-world scenarios are
affected by noise, such as pose noise in vehicle localiza-
tion, perception noise in raw data [21], and the motion blur
in fast-moving object detection. These noises cannot be ig-
nored for real-world applications of multi-agent collabora-
tive systems. Unfortunately, studies on robust collaborative
perception with real-world noise are largely limited.
In fact, different forms of noise in the real world can af-
fect the performance of collaborative perception systems in
different ways. For example, when noise interferes with the
positioning system, it affects the accuracy of pose informa-
tion. Pose information is vital for fusing the perception data
(e.g., raw data, intermediate features, or detection outputs)
of the collaborative agents in different coordinates [40].
Thus, pose noise can lead to information misalignment and
inconsistency among agents [26] during data fusion, result-
ing in a reduced system performance. Perception noise in-
troduces distortions into the sensor data, which affects the
final performance of the perception system. In addition, the
presence of motion blur due to rapid object movement af-
fects the accuracy of target detection [1, 9, 15, 30].
However, the development of a robust collaborative per-
ception system against real-world noise is complicated by
the following challenges. First, a robust fusion strategy that
adequately processes the multi-source perception data is re-
quired to deal with the perceptual misalignment caused by
pose noise. Second, a feature selection strategy that filters
out highly informative features is crucial to reduce band-
width consumption and improve the efficiency of multi-
agent collaboration [28]. Finally, it is desirable to find a sta-
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
15301
