OPV2V: An Open Benchmark Dataset and Fusion Pipeline for
Perception with Vehicle-to-Vehicle Communication
Runsheng Xu 1∗, Hao Xiang 1∗, Xin Xia 1, Xu Han 1, Jinlong Li 2, Jiaqi Ma 1
Abstract— Employing Vehicle-to-Vehicle communication to
enhance perception performance in self-driving technology has
attracted considerable attention recently; however, the absence
of a suitable open dataset for benchmarking algorithms has
made it difﬁcult to develop and assess cooperative perception
technologies. To this end, we present the ﬁrst large-scale
open simulated dataset for Vehicle-to-Vehicle perception. It
contains over 70 interesting scenes, 11,464 frames, and 232,913
annotated 3D vehicle bounding boxes, collected from 8 towns
in CARLA and a digital town of Culver City, Los Angeles.
We then construct a comprehensive benchmark with a total of
16 implemented models to evaluate several information fusion
strategies (i.e. early, late, and intermediate fusion) with state-
of-the-art LiDAR detection algorithms. Moreover, we propose
a new Attentive Intermediate Fusion pipeline to aggregate
information from multiple connected vehicles. Our experiments
show that the proposed pipeline can be easily integrated
with existing 3D LiDAR detectors and achieve outstanding
performance even with large compression rates. To encourage
more researchers to investigate Vehicle-to-Vehicle perception,
we will release the dataset, benchmark methods, and all related
codes in https://mobility-lab.seas.ucla.edu/opv2v/.
I. INTRODUCTION
Perceiving the dynamic environment accurately is critical
for robust intelligent driving. With recent advancements
in robotic sensing and machine learning, the reliability of
perception has been signiﬁcantly improved [1], [2], [3], and
3D object detection algorithms have achieved outstanding
performance either with LiDAR point clouds [4], [5], [6],
[7] or multi-sensor data [8], [9].
Despite the recent breakthroughs in the perception ﬁeld,
challenges remain. When the objects are heavily occluded
or have small scales, the detection performance will dramat-
ically drop. Such problems can lead to catastrophic accidents
and are difﬁcult to solve by any algorithms since the sensor
observations are too sparse. An example is revealed in
Fig. 1a. Such circumstances are very common but dangerous
in real-world scenarios, and these blind spot issues are
extremely tough to handle by a single self-driving car.
To this end, researchers started recently investigating
dynamic agent detection in a cooperative fashion, such as
USDOT CARMA [10] and Cooper [11]. By leveraging the
Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) communication technology, differ-
ent Connected Automated Vehicles (CA Vs) can share their
sensing information and thus provide multiple viewpoints
for the same obstacle to compensate each other. The shared
*Equal contribution
1University of California, Los Angeles, Mobility Lab. {rxx3386,
haxiang, x35xia, hanxu417, jiaqima }@ucla.edu
2Cleveland State University, Cleveland Vision and AI Lab,
j.li56@vikes.csuohio.edu
information could be raw data, intermediate features, single
CA V’s detection output, and metadata e.g., timestamps and
poses. Despite the big potential in this ﬁeld, it is still in
its infancy. One of the major barriers is the lack of a large
open-source dataset. Unlike the single vehicle’s perception
area where multiple large-scale public datasets exist [12],
[13], [14], most of the current V2V perception algorithms
conduct experiments based on their customized data [15],
[16], [17]. These datasets are either too small in scale and
variance or they are not publicly available. Consequently,
there is no large-scale dataset suitable for benchmarking
distinct V2V perception algorithms, and such deﬁciency will
preclude further progress in this research ﬁeld.
To address this gap, we present OPV2V , the ﬁrst large-
scale Open Dataset for Perception with V2V communication.
By utilizing a cooperative driving co-simulation framework
named OpenCDA [18] and CARLA simulator [19], we col-
lect 73 divergent scenes with a various number of connected
vehicles to cover challenging driving situations like severe
occlusions. To narrow down the gap between the simulation
and real-world trafﬁc, we further build a digital town of
Culver City, Los Angeles with the same road topology and
spawn dynamic agents that mimic the realistic trafﬁc ﬂow on
it. Data samples are shown in Fig. 1 and Fig. 4. We bench-
mark several state-of-the-art 3D object detection algorithms
combined with different multi-vehicle fusion strategies. On
top of that, we propose an Attentive Intermediate Fusion
pipeline to better capture interactions between connected
agents within the network. Our experiments show that the
proposed pipeline can efﬁciently reduce the bandwidth re-
quirements while achieving state-of-the-art performance.
II. R ELATED WORK
Vehicle-to-Vehicle Perception: V2V perception methods
can be divided into three categories: early fusion, late fusion,
and intermediate fusion. Early fusion methods [11] share raw
data with CA Vs within the communication range, and the ego
vehicle will predict the objects based on the aggregated data.
These methods preserve the complete sensor measurements
but require large bandwidth and are hard to operate in
real time [15]. In contrast, late fusion methods transmit
the detection outputs and fuse received proposals into a
consistent prediction. Following this idea, Rauch et al. [20]
propose a Car2X-based perception module to jointly align
the shared bounding box proposals spatially and temporally
via an EKF. In [21], a machine learning-based method is
utilized to fuse proposals generated by different connected
agents. This stream of work requires less bandwidth, but
arXiv:2109.07644v5  [cs.CV]  20 Jun 2022