RCP-Bench: Benchmarking Robustness for Collaborative Perception
Under Diverse Corruptions
Shihang Du1, Sanqing Qu1, Tianhang Wang1, Xudong Zhang1,
Yunwei Zhu1, Jian Mao1, Fan Lu1, Qiao Lin2, Guang Chen1*
1Tongji University,2EACON Technology Co., ltd.
Abstract
Collaborative perception enhances single-vehicle percep-
tion by integrating sensory data from multiple connected ve-
hicles. However, existing studies often assume ideal condi-
tions, overlooking resilience to real-world challenges, such
as adverse weather and sensor malfunctions, which is crit-
ical for safe deployment. To address this gap, we intro-
duce RCP-Bench, the first comprehensive benchmark de-
signed to evaluate the robustness of collaborative detec-
tion models under a wide range of real-world corruptions.
RCP-Bench includes three new datasets (i.e., OPV2V-C,
V2XSet-C, and DAIR-V2X-C) that simulate six collabora-
tive cases and 14 types of camera corruption resulting from
external environmental factors, sensor failures, and tem-
poral misalignments. Extensive experiments on 10 lead-
ing collaborative perception models reveal that, while these
models perform well under ideal conditions, they are sig-
nificantly affected by corruptions. To improve robustness,
we propose two simple yet effective strategies, RCP-Drop
and RCP-Mix, based on training regularization and fea-
ture augmentation. Additionally, we identify several crit-
ical factors influencing robustness, such as backbone ar-
chitecture, camera number, feature fusion methods, and the
number of connected vehicles. We hope that RCP-Bench,
along with these strategies and insights, will stimulate fu-
ture research toward developing more robust collaborative
perception models. Our benchmark toolkit is available at
https://github.com/LuckyDush/RCP-Bench.
1. Introduction
Perception is a fundamental capability for robots and au-
tonomous vehicles to accurately interpret their surround-
ings. Despite significant advancements in perception tasks
through deep learning, including object detection [3, 68]
and segmentation [19, 27], single-vehicle perception using
onboard sensors still faces inherent limitations, such as re-
stricted range, limited field of view, and vulnerability to oc-
clusions [17, 30, 50], resulting in blind spots that hinder full
*Corresponding author: guangchen@tongji.edu.cn
No CAV
a
c d
b
Ego Cor/Clean CAV Cor/Clean
Global Interference
Ego InterferenceCAV Interference
or or
Baseline
0 0 16 32 48
+14.90
16 32 48
-6.61
0 16 32 48
Ego Corruption (Cor)
Ego Clean
Ego CAV Clean
0 16 32 48
-26.64
Figure 1. Comparison of collaborative object detection results
(averaged across 10 leading methods) in OPV2V-C across three
interference scenarios: Global, Ego, and CA V Interference. The
results indicate that perception models are particularly vulnerable
to Global Interference, benefit from collaborative compensation
under Ego Interference, and experience performance degradation
under CA V Interference.
environmental understanding [5]. Collaborative perception,
where perception data are shared among Connected Au-
tonomous Vehicles (CA Vs), has shown promise in overcom-
ing these challenges. By leveraging multiple viewpoints,
collaborative perception extends perceptual range, enhances
spatial coverage, and improves resilience to occlusions [16].
Numerous studies have investigated practical challenges
that may impact collaborative performance, such as band-
width limitations for shared information [15, 32, 33, 44],
transmission issues [26, 38, 47, 60], pose estimation er-
rors [24, 34, 43, 66], and heterogeneity among cooperat-
ing vehicles [28, 48, 55]. However, current models and
evaluations generally assume idealized conditions, such
as clear weather and fully functional sensors. In real-
world driving scenarios, adverse conditions such as external
weather [9, 10, 18] and sensor failures [2, 12] are unavoid-
able. Although recent efforts address individual robustness
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
11908
