Perception for Connected Autonomous Vehicles under Adverse Weather
Conditions
Dimitra Tsakmakopoulou, Konstantinos Moustakas, Senior Member, IEEE
Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, University of Patras, Greece
Abstract— Autonomous Vehicles (A Vs) have recently at-
tracted considerable attention due to their potential to sig-
nificantly reduce road accidents and improve people’s lives.
However, they rely solely on the data collected by their
mounted sensors to make predictions, which can lead to
inaccurate results if a sensor becomes occluded or damaged.
This issue can be addressed by employing Vehicle-to-Vehicle
communication, which allows a Connected Autonomous Vehicle
(CA V) to interact with other CA Vs within its field of view
and exchange information about their surrounding objects.
Existing research on cooperative perception has primarily
focused on clear weather scenarios, with limited exploration
into adverse weather conditions. This paper demonstrates the
necessity of Vehicle-to-Vehicle communication by showcasing its
benefits in maintaining high accuracy under adverse weather
conditions. A collaborative perception system is introduced
and its performance in foggy weather scenarios is assessed
to further improve adverse weather perception. The pipeline
of the network combines state-of-the-art methods for accurate
object detection. Specifically, with PointPillars as the backbone,
the Spatial-wise Adaptive Feature Fusion method is used to
aggregate information from different vehicles. The model is
trained on the large-scale dataset OPV2V and evaluated on
modified data to simulate fog. The experiments show that
cooperative perception can maintain high detection accuracy
even in challenging weather conditions. Finally, a comparative
analysis of LiDAR detectors for cooperative perception in bad
weather conditions is presented.
I. I NTRODUCTION
Autonomous Vehicles (A Vs) require an accurate percep-
tion of their 3D environment, as false detections can lead to
accidents with potentially severe consequences for human
safety. Despite recent advancements in machine learning
algorithms, the challenge of inaccurate results persists, par-
ticularly when surrounding objects are occluded or reduced
visibility due to adverse weather degrades sensor recordings.
Connected Autonomous Vehicles (CA Vs) offer a promising
solution to enhance dynamic environmental perception. By
facilitating the exchange of data from different angles for the
same road scene, CA Vs contribute to a more comprehensive
understanding of the objects in the environment.
To ensure safety, it is essential to evaluate the performance
of A Vs under diverse environmental and weather conditions,
especially given the recent increase in extreme weather
changes. Most existing research has focused on single-
vehicle detection in adverse weather conditions. Considering
the significant contribution of cooperative perception in clear
weather scenarios, this paper aims to evaluate and compare
the performance of state-of-the-art (SOTA) LiDAR detection
algorithms for cooperative perception in foggy weather. This
is achieved by applying a fog simulation method to the first
published large-scale connected A Vs dataset. In addition, a
pipeline is proposed that outperforms other SOTA methods
in terms of accuracy. The pipeline uses the S-AdaFusion [1]
method for data fusion from different CA Vs, which is applied
at an earlier stage according to the overall network archi-
tecture introduced in [2]. While this pipeline demonstrates
higher accuracy, which is critical for when the visibility
is reduced and human safety is the primary concern, the
research also examines the potential drawbacks that may be
introduced of prioritising higher accuracy.
Section II describes current SOTA cooperative perception
methods and the impact of adverse weather on A Vs. Section
III provides a detailed explanation of the proposed pipeline
and a brief overview of the selected fog simulation method.
The experimental results and comparative analysis are pre-
sented in section IV . Section V concludes the paper.
II. R ELATED WORK
This section begins with an overview of existing work on
LiDAR detectors for cooperative perception. It then examines
the impact of adverse weather conditions on point cloud data,
highlighting the research gap that this study aims to address.
A. Cooperative Perception
In cooperative perception, vehicles share data with other
vehicles in their vicinity. This allows each vehicle to fuse
and process data from its onboard sensors with informa-
tion from other vehicles, extending the individual vehicle’s
perception range. Data fusion methods can be divided into
three categories depending on the type of data being shared:
early, late and intermediate fusion. Early fusion methods
[3], involve sharing raw data, which the ego vehicle later
fuses and processes. However, these methods face challenges
in transmitting real-time data over limited network band-
width. On the contrary, in late fusion methods [4] each
agent transmits its proposals which are then fused into a
final prediction by the ego vehicle. While this approach
reduces the required bandwidth, it does not significantly
enhance accuracy, as it depends on each agent’s individual
performance. Intermediate fusion methods have proven to
strike a balance, maintaining low bandwidth requirements
while achieving high detection accuracy. In these methods,
the ego vehicle fuses feature maps obtained from surrounding
vehicles.
For instance, F-Cooper [5] employs max pooling to aggre-
gate the most important features from feature maps of various