Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2025
STAMP: S CALABLE TASK - A ND MODEL -AGNOSTIC
COLLABORATIVE PERCEPTION
Xiangbo Gao1, Runsheng Xu 2, Jiachen Li 3, Ziran Wang 4, Zhiwen Fan 5, Zhengzhong Tu 1∗
1Texas A&M University,2UCLA, 3UC Riverside, 4Purdue University, 5UT Austin
{xiangbog,tzz}@tamu.edu
ABSTRACT
Perception is a crucial component of autonomous driving systems. However,
single-agent setups often face limitations due to sensor constraints, especially un-
der challenging conditions like severe occlusion, adverse weather, and long-range
object detection. Multi-agent collaborative perception (CP) offers a promising
solution that enables communication and information sharing between connected
vehicles. Yet, the heterogeneity among agents—in terms of sensors, models, and
tasks—significantly hinders effective and efficient cross-agent collaboration. To
address these challenges, we propose STAMP, a scalable task- and model-agnostic
collaborative perception framework tailored for heterogeneous agents. STAMP
utilizes lightweight adapter-reverter pairs to transform Bird’s Eye View (BEV)
features between agent-specific domains and a shared protocol domain, facilitat-
ing efficient feature sharing and fusion while minimizing computational overhead.
Moreover, our approach enhances scalability, preserves model security, and ac-
commodates a diverse range of agents. Extensive experiments on both simulated
(OPV2V) and real-world (V2V4Real) datasets demonstrate that STAMP achieves
comparable or superior accuracy to state-of-the-art models with significantly re-
duced computational costs. As the first-of-its-kind task- and model-agnostic col-
laborative perception framework, STAMP aims to advance research in scalable
and secure mobility systems, bringing us closer to Level 5 autonomy. Our project
page is at https://xiangbogaobarry.github.io/STAMP and the code is available at
https://github.com/taco-group/STAMP.
1 I NTRODUCTION
Multi-agent collaborative perception (CP) (Bai et al., 2022b; Han et al., 2023; Liu et al., 2023a) has
emerged as a promising solution for autonomous systems by leveraging communication among mul-
tiple connected and automated agents. It enables agents—such as vehicles, infrastructure, or even
pedestrians—to share sensory and perceptual information, providing a more comprehensive view of
the surrounding environment to enhance overall perception capabilities. Despite its potential, CP
faces significant challenges, particularly when dealing with heterogeneous agents that defer in input
modalities, model parameters, architectures, or learning objectives. For instance, Xu et al. (2023b)
observed that features from heterogeneous agents vary in spatial resolution, channel number, and
feature patterns. This domain gap hinders effective and efficient CP, particularly when employing
fusion-based approaches.
To facilitate collaborative perception among heterogeneous agents—often referred to as heteroge-
neous collaborative perception—one might consider using early or late fusion. However, early fu-
sion requires high communication bandwidth, making it impractical for real-time applications. Late
fusion often results in suboptimal accuracy, and it is not viable across models with different down-
stream tasks. Alternative methods attempt to achieve heterogeneous intermediate fusion by either
incorporating adapters (Xu et al., 2023b) or sharing parts of the models (Lu et al., 2024). While
these approaches can bridge the domain gap, they are limited in scalability or security, rendering
them inefficient or unsafe for practical deployment. Additionally, recent studies have highlighted
increased security vulnerabilities in CP systems compared to single-agent frameworks (Hu et al.,
*Corresponding author.
1