Latency-Aware Collaborative Perception
Zixing Lei 1, Shunli Ren 1, Yue Hu 1, Wenjun Zhang 1, and Siheng Chen 1,2⋆
1 Cooperative Medianet Innovation Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University
2 Shanghai AI Laboratory
{chezacarss,renshunli,18671129361,zhangwenjun,sihengc}@sjtu.edu.cn
Abstract. Collaborative perception has recently shown great potential
to improve perception capabilities over single-agent perception. Existing
collaborative perception methods usually consider an ideal communica-
tion environment. However, in practice, the communication system in-
evitably suffers from latency issues, causing potential performance degra-
dation and high risks in safety-critical applications, such as autonomous
driving. To mitigate the effect caused by the inevitable latency, from a
machine learning perspective, we present the first latency-aware collabo-
rative perception system, which actively adapts asynchronous perceptual
features from multiple agents to the same time stamp, promoting the
robustness and effectiveness of collaboration. To achieve such a feature-
level synchronization, we propose a novel latency compensation mod-
ule, called SyncNet, which leverages feature-attention symbiotic estima-
tion and time modulation techniques. Experiments results show that the
proposed latency aware collaborative perception system with SyncNet
can outperforms the state-of-the-art collaborative perception method by
15.6% in the communication latency scenario and keep collaborative per-
ception being superior to single agent perception under severe latency.
1 Introduction
Collaborative perception considers a multi-agent system to perceive a scene,
where multiple agents collaborate through a communication network [4, 6, 8, 15–
17, 27, 34, 35, 37–40]. With the observation from multiple agents, collaborative
perception can fundamentally overcome the physical limits of single-agent per-
ception, such as over-the-horizon and occlusion. Such collaborative perception
models can be widely applied to practical applications, such as autonomous driv-
ing and robotics mapping. Previous collaborative perception methods [15–17,27]
have achieved remarkable success in multiple perception tasks, including 2D/3D
object detection [21,22,36], and semantic segmentation [5,20,33,41]. [16,17] focus
on semantic segmentation for drones and [15,27] discuss the 3D object detection
based on the vehicle-to-vehicle-communication-aided autonomous driving. Con-
sidering the trade-off between communication bandwidth and perception per-
formance, previous works achieve the collaboration in the intermediate-feature
space and leverage attentive mechanisms to fuse the collaboration features.
⋆ Corresponding author.
Code is available at: https://github.com/MediaBrain-SJTU/SyncNet