IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS 1
A Systematic Literature Review on Vehicular
Collaborative Perception—A Computer
Vision Perspective
Lei Wan
 , Jianxin Zhao, Andreas Wiedholz, Manuel Bied, Mateus Martinez de Lucena
 ,
Abhishek Dinkar Jagtap, Andreas Festag, Senior Member, IEEE,
Antˆonio Augusto Fr ¨ohlich
 , Senior Member, IEEE, Hannan Ejaz Keen, and Alexey Vinel
 , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract—The e ﬀectiveness of autonomous vehicles relies on
reliable perception capabilities. Despite signiﬁcant advancements
in artiﬁcial intelligence and sensor fusion technologies, cur-
rent single-vehicle perception systems continue to encounter
limitations, notably visual occlusions and limited long-range
detection capabilities. Collaborative Perception (CP), enabled
by Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) and Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I)
communication, has emerged as a promising solution to mitigate
these issues and enhance the reliability of autonomous systems.
Beyond advancements in communication, the computer vision
community is increasingly focusing on improving vehicular per-
ception through collaborative approaches. However, a systematic
literature review that thoroughly examines existing work and
reduces subjective bias is still lacking. Such a systematic approach
helps identify research gaps, recognize common trends across
studies, and inform future research directions. In response,
this study follows the PRISMA 2020 guidelines and includes
106 peer-reviewed articles. These publications are analyzed based
on modalities, collaboration schemes, and key perception tasks.
Through a comparative analysis, this review illustrates how
diﬀerent methods address practical issues such as pose errors,
temporal latency, communication constraints, domain shifts,
heterogeneity, and adversarial attacks. Furthermore, it critically
examines evaluation methodologies, highlighting a misalignment
between current metrics and CP’s fundamental objectives. By
delving into all relevant topics in-depth, this review o ﬀers
valuable insights into challenges, opportunities, and risks, serving
Received 24 December 2024; revised 19 April 2025 and 15 September
2025; accepted 19 October 2025. This work was supported by the German
Federal Ministry for Economic A ﬀairs and Climate Action (BMWK) within
the program “Novel Vehicle and System Technologie” and the project “Valid
Innovative Comprehensive Sensor System for Cooperative Automated Driv-
ing” (V ALISENS) under Grant 19A22009E. The Associate Editor for this
article was J. Fang. (Corresponding author: Alexey Vinel.)
Lei Wan is with XITASO GmbH, 86153 Augsburg, Germany, and also with
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), 76133 Karlsruhe, Germany (e-mail:
lei.wan@partner.kit.edu).
Jianxin Zhao, Manuel Bied, and Alexey Vinel are with Karlsruhe Institute of
Technology (KIT), 76133 Karlsruhe, Germany (e-mail: jianxin.zhao@kit.edu;
manuel.bied@kit.edu; alexey.vinel@kit.edu).
Andreas Wiedholz and Hannan Ejaz Keen are with XITASO GmbH, 86153
Augsburg, Germany (e-mail: andreas@xitaso.com; hannan.keen@xitaso.com).
Mateus Martinez de Lucena and Ant ˆonio Augusto Fr ¨ohlich are with the
Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC), Florian´opolis 88040-900, Brazil
(e-mail: lucena@lisha.ufsc.br; guto@lisha.ufsc.br).
Abhishek Dinkar Jagtap and Andreas Festag are with CARISSMA
Institute of Electric, Connected and Secure Mobility (C-ECOS), Tech-
nische Hochschule Ingolstadt (THI), 85049 Ingolstadt, Germany (e-mail:
abhishekdinkar.jagtap@carissma.eu; andreas.festag@carissma.eu).
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109 /TITS.2025.3631141
as a reference for advancing research in vehicular collaborative
perception.
Index Terms —Autonomous driving, connected autonomous
vehicles, cooperative-intelligent transportation systems, computer
vision, collaborative perception, collective perception.
I. I NTRODUCTION
A
UTONOMOUS Vehicles (A Vs) are a crucial technol-
ogy for intelligent transportation systems, o ﬀering the
potential to signiﬁcantly enhance road safety and transporta-
tion e ﬃciency. With the emergence of Vehicle-to-Vehicle
(V2V) and Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I) communication,
Connected Autonomous Vehicles (CA Vs) advance this poten-
tial by enabling data sharing not only among vehicles but
also with tra ﬃc management systems, thereby adding new
value to Cooperative-Intelligent Transportation Systems (C-
ITS). A critical component of both A Vs and CA Vs is their
perception capability, which involves using multiple sensors
to recognize and interpret the driving environment, forming
the foundation for subsequent planning and control operations.
Perception tasks include 2D /3D object detection, semantic
segmentation, object tracking, and motion prediction, among
others. Driven by advances in artiﬁcial intelligence and multi-
sensor fusion, the perception capabilities of individual vehicles
have signiﬁcantly improved. However, these capabilities are
still limited by challenges such as visual occlusion and long-
range detection, which are di ﬃcult to overcome with onboard
sensors alone. These limitations can lead to reduced situational
awareness, increase the risk of traﬃc accidents, and reduce the
driving eﬃciency.
To address the limitations of individual vehicle perception,
Collaborative Perception (CP) 1 supported by V2V and V2I
communication has gained signiﬁcant attention [1]. In the
context of CP, where only vehicles and infrastructure are
equipped with sensors, CP utilizing both V2V and V2I is
1In the context of collaborative perception, the terms cooperative and collec-
tive perception are frequently used. However, in this paper, we speciﬁcally use
the term Collaborative Perception to emphasize the dual aspects of information
sharing and coordinated action among agents. In contrast, cooperative percep-
tion focuses on information sharing, while collective perception emphasizes
the distributed nature of shared perception.
1558-0016 © 2025 The Authors. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License.
For more information, see https: //creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 