TransIFF: An Instance-Level Feature Fusion Framework for
Vehicle-Infrastructure Cooperative 3D Detection with Transformers
Ziming Chen
Beihang University
chenzm@buaa.edu.cn
Yifeng Shi*
Baidu Inc.
shiyifeng@baidu.com
Jinrang Jia
Baidu Inc.
jjr5401@163.com
Abstract
Cooperation between vehicles and infrastructure is vi-
tal to enhancing the safety of autonomous driving. Two
significant and contradictory challenges now stand in the
collaborative perception: fusion accuracy and communica-
tion bandwidth. Previous intermediate fusion methods that
transmit features balance the accuracy and bandwidth com-
pared with early fusion and late fusion, but usually have
problems with feature alignment and domain gaps, and the
bandwidth usage still falls short of the industrial applica-
tion standard to our best knowledge.
In this paper, we propose TransIFF , an instance-level
feature fusion framework with transformers that can effec-
tively reduce bandwidth usage. Furthermore, it can align
the domain gaps between vehicle and infrastructure fea-
tures, and improve the robustness of feature fusion, lead-
ing to a high cooperative perception accuracy. TransIFF is
composed of three components: a vehicle-side network, an
infrastructure-side network, and a vehicle-infrastructure fu-
sion network. Initially, the vehicle-side and infrastructure-
side networks independently generate instance-level fea-
tures. Subsequently, the infrastructure-side instance-level
features are transmitted to the vehicles, significantly reduc-
ing the communication bandwidth usage. Finally, in the
vehicle-infrastructure fusion network, Cross-Domain Adap-
tation (CDA) module is designed to align the feature do-
mains, followed by Feature Magnet (FM) module which
can adaptively fuse the instance features and achieve a ro-
bust feature fusion. TransIFF yields state-of-the-art perfor-
mance on the widely used real-world vehicle-infrastructure
cooperative benchmark DAIR-V2X, achieving 59.62 %AP
with only 212 bytes bandwidth consumption.
1. Introduction
Accurate environment perception [14, 15, 40] is an im-
portant topic in the field of autonomous driving. Cur-
*Corresponding author
65
60
55
50
45
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
CommunicationVolume(log2)
PerformanceAP@0.5
When2com
NoCollaboration
V2X-ViT
DiscoNet
V2VNet
Where2commTransIFF(Ours)
LateFusion
Where2comm
Figure 1. TransIFF achieves superior performance-bandwidth
trade-off on DAIR-V2X benchmark.Compared with other inter-
mediate fusion methods, TransIFF can achieve over212 times less
communication volume, and still have an AP of nearly 60%. The
curve of Where2comm means its performance at different band-
width usage.
rently, autonomous vehicles mainly rely on the on-board
LiDAR sensors [15, 31, 32] to obtain dense point clouds
of the surrounding environment and perform target detec-
tion. However, limited by the height of the sensor installa-
tion, the vehicle perception system faces challenges such as
occlusion-induced blind spots and long-distance perception
instability, which hinder the development of autonomous
driving. In recent years, there has been an increasing
amount of research focused on utilizing both vehicle-side
and infrastructure-side information to achieve Vehicle-to-
Everything (V2X) cooperative perception [22, 36, 37, 8]
to address these issues. Thanks to the high installation
height of infrastructure-side sensors, autonomous vehicles
can achieve a global perspective and long-distance percep-
tion by receiving information from infrastructure-side sen-
sors, significantly improving the perception ability.
This ICCV paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
18205
