UECP: Uncertainty-Enhanced Collaborative
Perception
Kang Yang1, Tianci Bu2, Peng Wang1, Deying Li1, Wen Jie3, and Yongcai
Wang1⋆
1 Renmin University of China, Beijing, China
{yangkang1205,peng.wang,deyingli,ycw}@ruc.edu.cn
2 College of Systems Engineering, National University of Defense Technology,
Changsha, China
btc010001@gmail.com
3 Intelligent Shipping Center, China Waterborne Transport Research Institute,
Beijing, China
wenjie@wti.ac.cn
Abstract.Collaborative perception serves as a pivotal solution to en-
hance the perception capability of individual agents in autonomous driv-
ing, where a core challenge lies in seeking reliable evidence to quantify
and weight the contribution of each participating agent. Existing meth-
ods typically rely on a confidence map (co-trained with the detection
head), which is, however, inherently correlated with the detection re-
sults and thus fails to provide unbiased physical evidence. Furthermore,
how to deeply integrate evidence into the cooperative fusion process re-
mains an open question. To address these issues, this paper first pro-
posesuncertainty map, a physically grounded and unambiguous met-
ric for evaluating perception quality. This map is directly supervised
by real-time sensor signals (i.e., LiDAR point density), ensuring de-
coupling from detection noise and thereby providing physical scenario-
aware evidence for weighting agent contribution. Based on this map,
we develop the Uncertainty-Enhanced Collaborative Perception (UECP)
framework, centered on the Uncertainty-Aware Pyramid Fusion (UAPF)
module. UAPF uses a coarse-to-fine strategy, with two key components:
Uncertainty-Weighted Downsampling (UWD) for high-fidelity feature
preservation, and Uncertainty-Guided Residual Fusion (UGRF) to rein-
force ego features, suppressing noise and ensuring robust fusion. Exten-
sive experiments on real-world datasets show UECP outperforms SOTA
methods in effectiveness and robustness by embedding the uncertainty
map into fusion. Code will be publicly available.
Keywords:Collaborative Perception·Uncertainty Map·Feature Fu-
sion·Autonomous Driving
⋆ Corresponding author.
arXiv:2606.23046v1  [cs.CV]  22 Jun 2026