UMC: A Unified Bandwidth-efficient and Multi-resolution based Collaborative
Perception Framework
Tianhang Wang1, Guang Chen1,B*, Kai Chen1, Zhengfa Liu1, Bo Zhang2, Alois Knoll3, Changjun Jiang1
1Tongji University,2Shanghai Westwell Technology Co., Ltd, 3Technische Universit¨at M¨unchen
{tianya wang,guangchen,14sdck,1811466,cjjiang}@tongji.edu.cn
bob.zhang@westwell-lab.com knoll@in.tum.de
Abstract
Multi-agent collaborative perception (MCP) has re-
cently attracted much attention. It includes three key pro-
cesses: communication for sharing, collaboration for inte-
gration, and reconstruction for different downstream tasks.
Existing methods pursue designing the collaboration pro-
cess alone, ignoring their intrinsic interactions and re-
sulting in suboptimal performance. In contrast, we aim
to propose a Unified Collaborative perception framework
named UMC, optimizing the communication, collabora-
tion, and reconstruction processes with theMulti-resolution
technique. The communication introduces a novel train-
able multi-resolution and selective-region (MRSR) mecha-
nism, achieving higher quality and lower bandwidth. Then,
a graph-based collaboration is proposed, conducting on
each resolution to adapt the MRSR. Finally, the reconstruc-
tion integrates the multi-resolution collaborative features
for downstream tasks. Since the general metric can not re-
flect the performance enhancement brought by MCP sys-
tematically, we introduce a brand-new evaluation metric
that evaluates the MCP from different perspectives. To ver-
ify our algorithm, we conducted experiments on the V2X-
Sim and OPV2V datasets. Our quantitative and qualitative
experiments prove that the proposed UMC outperforms the
state-of-the-art collaborative perception approaches.
1. Introduction
Single-vehicle perception has made remarkable achieve-
ments in object detection[20, 30, 31], segmentation[28, 32],
and other tasks with the advent of deep learning. However,
single-vehicle perception often suffers from environmental
conditions such as occlusion[38, 49] and severe weather[4,
16, 52], making accurate recognition challenging. To over-
come these issues, several appealing studies have been de-
*Corresponding author: guangchen@tongji.edu.cn. Our code is avail-
able at:https://github.com/ispc-lab/UMC.
(b) Our proposed MRSR communication mechanism
(a) Existing SRAR communication mechanism
Collaborative Process
Single-
Features Coarse
Encoder
Communication Region
Multi-
Features
Fine
Intermediate
Coarse
Fine
Intermediate
Coarse
Entropy-based Selection
Encoder
No SelectionSingle-resolution
Multi-resolution
Figure 1. The SRAR versus the proposed MRSR mechanism .
(a) The existing single-resolution and all-region (SRAR) method
utilizes the coarse-grained feature with bandwidth inefficient all-
region transmission. (b) The proposed MRSR mechanism incor-
porates bandwidth-efficient entropy-based selection with multi-
resolution features.
voted to collaborative perception[1, 2, 7, 41, 48], which take
advantage of sharing the multiple-viewpoint of the same
scene with the Vehicle-to-Vehicle(V2V) communication[3].
To design a collaborative perception algorithm, current
approaches[39, 23, 44, 18, 43] mainly focus on the collab-
oration process alone, aiming to design a high-performance
collaboration strategy. Nevertheless, such a strategy ig-
nores intrinsic interactions with two critical processes:
communication[22, 12] and reconstruction[9]. This kind
of collaboration strategy will inherently cause suboptimal
performance because the quality of communication directly
determines the performance of collaboration[18], and the
reconstruction influences the quality of feature maps for
downstream tasks. Meanwhile, the collaboration can also
affect the design of communication and reconstruction.
Hence, failing to optimize these three processes will de-
grade the system.
In this paper, to the best of our knowledge, we are the
first to propose a unified collaborative perception frame-
work that optimizes the communication, collaboration, and
reconstruction processes with multi-resolution technique.
This ICCV paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
8187
