1
Learning for Vehicle-to-Vehicle Cooperative
Perception under Lossy Communication
Jinlong Li, Runsheng Xu, Xinyu Liu, Jin Ma, Zicheng Chi, Jiaqi Ma, Hongkai Yu ∗
Abstract—Deep learning has been widely used in intelligent
vehicle driving perception systems, such as 3D object detec-
tion. One promising technique is Cooperative Perception, which
leverages Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) communication to share deep
learning-based features among vehicles. However, most coopera-
tive perception algorithms assume ideal communication and do
not consider the impact of Lossy Communication (LC), which
is very common in the real world, on feature sharing. In this
paper, we explore the effects of LC on Cooperative Perception
and propose a novel approach to mitigate these effects. Our
approach includes an LC-aware Repair Network (LCRN) and
a V2V Attention Module (V2V AM) with intra-vehicle attention
and uncertainty-aware inter-vehicle attention. We demonstrate
the effectiveness of our approach on the public OPV2V dataset (a
digital-twin simulated dataset) using point cloud-based 3D object
detection. Our results show that our approach improves detection
performance under lossy V2V communication. Speciﬁcally, our
proposed method achieves a signiﬁcant improvement in Average
Precision compared to the state-of-the-art cooperative perception
algorithms, which proves the capability of our approach to
effectively mitigate the negative impact of LC and enhance the
interaction between the ego vehicle and other vehicles. The code
is available at: https://github.com/jinlong17/V2VLC.
Index Terms—deep learning, vehicle-to-vehicle cooperative per-
ception, 3D object detection, lossy communication, digital twin
I. I NTRODUCTION
H
OW to perceive the surrounding objects precisely in
complex real-world scenarios is critical for modern
intelligent vehicle research. The accurate perception system
(e.g., 3D object detection) is the fundamental base for the next
motion planning and control of the intelligent vehicles, which
implies tremendous impacts on the driving safety of intelligent
vehicles [2]–[6].
Because of the perception limitation of the current individ-
ual intelligent vehicle [7]–[9], the cooperative perception of
Connected Automated Vehicles (CA V) recently attracted much
attention in this research community. Compared to the percep-
tion of individual intelligent vehicles, recent studies [10]–[12]
show that cooperative perception of CA V can signiﬁcantly
improve the perception performance by leveraging Vehicle-
to-Vehicle (V2V) communication technology for information
sharing. Information sharing through V2V communication
Jinlong Li, Xinyu Liu, Jin Ma, Zicheng Chi, and Hongkai Yu are with
the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Cleveland
State University, Cleveland, OH 44115, USA. Runsheng Xu and Jiaqi Ma
are with the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University
of California, Los Angeles, CA 90024, USA. This work was supported by
NSF grants 2215388 and CNS-2127881. This work is part of the OpenCDA
Ecosystem [1].
* Corresponding author: Hongkai Yu (e-mail: h.yu19@csuohio.edu).
(a) Pipeline of V2V Cooperative Perception with lossy communication
(b) Detection in ideal communication
 (c) Detection in lossy communication
Fig. 1. Illustration of the V2V cooperative perception pipeline and its
detection performance drop suffering from lossy communication on the
public digital-twin CARLA simulator [16] based OPV2V dataset [10], where
three intermediate fusion methods all trained under ideal communication are
displayed: CoBEVT [11], F-Cooper [12], and V2X-ViT [15].
is an important technology for CA V cooperative perception,
which is utilized to observe a wider range and perceive more
occluded objects in the complex trafﬁc environment [13], [14].
There are three ways for information sharing during V2V
communication: (1) sharing raw sensor data as early fusion,
(2) sharing intermediate features of the deep learning based
detection networks as intermediate fusion, (3) sharing detec-
tion results as late fusion. Recent state-of-the-art studies [10],
[15] show that intermediate fusion is the best trade-off between
detection accuracy and bandwidth requirement. This paper also
focuses on the intermediate fusion during communication for
V2V cooperative perception.
Many intermediate fusion methods have been recently pro-
posed for the V2V cooperative perception [10]–[13]; however,
all of them assume the ideal communication. The only V2V
cooperative perception study that considered non-ideal com-
munication focused solely on communication delays [15]. To
date, no existing work has explored the impact of Lossy Com-
munication (LC) on V2V cooperative perception in complex
real-world driving environments. In urban trafﬁc scenarios,
V2V communication is susceptible to a range of factors
that can result in lossy communication, such as multi-path
effects from obstacles (e.g., buildings and vehicles) [17],
Doppler shift introduced by fast-moving vehicles [18], in-
terference generated by other communication networks [19],
arXiv:2212.08273v2  [cs.CV]  18 Mar 2023