V2VNet: Vehicle-to-Vehicle Communication for
Joint Perception and Prediction
Tsun-Hsuan Wang1, Sivabalan Manivasagam1,2, Ming Liang 1, Bin Yang1,2,
Wenyuan Zeng1,2, and Raquel Urtasun 1,2
1 UberATG
2 University of Toronto
{tsunhsuan.wang, manivasagam, byang, ming.liang, wenyuan,
urtasun}@uber.com
Abstract. In this paper, we explore the use of vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V)
communication to improve the perception and motion forecasting per-
formance of self-driving vehicles. By intelligently aggregating the infor-
mation received from multiple nearby vehicles, we can observe the same
scene from diﬀerent viewpoints. This allows us to see through occlusions
and detect actors at long range, where the observations are very sparse
or non-existent. We also show that our approach of sending compressed
deep feature map activations achieves high accuracy while satisfying com-
munication bandwidth requirements.
Keywords: Autonomous Driving, Object Detection, Motion Forecast
1 Introduction
While a world densely populated with self-driving vehicles (SDVs) might seem
futuristic, these vehicles will one day soon be the norm. They will provide safer,
cheaper and less congested transportation solutions for everyone, everywhere. A
core component of self-driving vehicles is their ability to perceive the world. From
sensor data, the SDV needs to reason about the scene in 3D, identify the other
agents, and forecast how their futures might play out. These tasks are commonly
referred to as perception and motion forecasting. Both strong perception and
motion forecasting are critical for the SDV to plan and maneuver through traﬃc
to get from one point to another safely.
The reliability of perception and motion forecasting algorithms has signiﬁ-
cantly improved in the past few years due to the development of neural network
architectures that can reason in 3D and intelligently fuse multi-sensor data (e.g.,
images, LiDAR, maps) [28, 29]. Motion forecasting algorithm performance has
been further improved by building good multimodal distributions [4,6,12,19] that
capture diverse actor behaviour and by modelling actor interactions [3,25,36,37].
Recently, [5, 31] propose approaches that perform joint perception and mo-
tion forecasting, dubbed perception and prediction (P&P), further increasing
the accuracy while being computationally more eﬃcient than classical two-step
pipelines.