1
Interruption-Aware Cooperative Perception for V2X
Communication-Aided Autonomous Driving
Shunli Ren, Zixing Lei, Zi Wang, Mehrdad Dianati Senior Member, Yafei Wang Member,
Siheng Chen Senior Member, Wenjun Zhang Fellow
Abstract—Cooperative perception can significantly improve
the perception performance of autonomous vehicles beyond the
limited perception ability of individual vehicles by exchanging
information with neighbor agents through V2X communication.
However, most existing work assume ideal communication among
agents, ignoring the significant and common interruption issues
caused by imperfect V2X communication, where cooperation
agents can not receive cooperative messages successfully and thus
fail to achieve cooperative perception, leading to safety risks. To
fully reap the benefits of cooperative perception in practice, we
propose V2X communication INterruption-aware COoperative
Perception (V2X-INCOP), a cooperative perception system robust
to communication interruption for V2X communication-aided
autonomous driving, which leverages historical cooperation infor-
mation to recover missing information due to the interruptions
and alleviate the impact of the interruption issue. To achieve
comprehensive recovery, we design a communication-adaptive
multi-scale spatial-temporal prediction model to extract multi-
scale spatial-temporal features based on V2X communication
conditions and capture the most significant information for the
prediction of the missing information. To further improve recov-
ery performance, we adopt a knowledge distillation framework
to give explicit and direct supervision to the prediction model
and a curriculum learning strategy to stabilize the training of
the model. Experiments on three public cooperative perception
datasets demonstrate that the proposed method is effective
in alleviating the impacts of communication interruption on
cooperative perception. V2X-INCOP outperforms state-of-the-art
cooperative perception methods and has a cooperative perception
gain up to 14.06%, 13.9%, and 12.07% over individual perception
on average of different packet drop rates on OPV2V , V2X-Sim,
and Dair-V2X datasets, respectively.
Index Terms —cooperative perception, 3D object detection,
autonomous driving
I. I NTRODUCTION
Autonomous Vehicles (A Vs) and Automated Driving Sys-
tems (ADSs) promise to improve the safety, efficiency, and
This research is partially supported by National Key R&D Program of
China under Grant 2021ZD0112801, NSFC under Grant 62171276 and the
Science and Technology Commission of Shanghai Municipal under Grant
21511100900 and 22DZ2229005. (Corresponding author: Siheng Chen and
Wenjun Zhang.)
Shunli Ren, Zixing Lei, Zi Wang, Siheng Chen and Wenjun Zhang are
with the Cooperative Medianet Innovation Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong Univer-
sity, Shanghai, China (e-mail: renshunli@sjtu.edu.cn, chezacarss@sjtu.edu.cn,
w4ngz1@sjtu.edu.cn, sihengc@sjtu.edu.cn, zhangwenjun@sjtu.edu.cn), and
Siheng Chen is also with Shanghai AI Laboratory, Shanghai, China.
Mehrdad Dianati is with the Warwick Manufacturing Group, The University
of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, U.K. (e-mail: M.Dianati@warwick.ac.uk).
Yafei Wang is with Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China (e-
mail: wyfjlu@sjtu.edu.cn).
This manuscript is an extension of a workshop paper [1] with no proceed-
ings, which is not a formal publication.
accessibility of future transport systems. A Vs and ADSs rely
on accurate and robust understanding of their surroundings,
i.e., perception, for safe, deficient, and comfortable motion
planning [3]–[5]. Poor perception can result in traffic ac-
cidents, threatening human safety [6], [7], and other forms
of damage. While rapid developments of advanced sensors
and perception algorithms [8]–[10] resulted in remarkable
progress in A V/ADS technology development in recent years,
the inadequacy of the existing solutions remains to be a major
obstacle on the road to safe employment of technology on
public roads.
One inherent limitation is associated with the percep-
tion ability of a single vehicle being fundamentally limited.
A Vs/ADSs that relay on sole ego-vehicle-based perception
suffer from several perception-related issues, such as: 1) long-
range issue : objects at long distances are harder to perceive
due to fewer measurements. For example, objects at a long
distance may be covered by only a few LiDAR points or image
pixels and even uncovered; 2) occlusion issue : some objects
may be occluded by obstacles in line-of-sight in crowded or
complex environments; 3) sensor malfunction and noise issue :
perception sensor may temporally break down due to internal
and external factors, such as circuit failure and lens smudge.
Also, the field of view of the onboard sensors may be impaired
by lighting conditions and other sensor noises. These issues
may result in missed or incorrect perception, and thus cause
a cascade failure of the downstream modules of autonomous
driving, such as tracking, prediction, planning and decision-
making.
Cooperative perception is a promising remedy to address the
above fundamental issues of individual perception [11]. With
Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communication, connected and
autonomous vehicles (CA Vs) and roadside units (RSUs) share
perception information, and cooperate to achieve a highly ac-
curate and robust perception beyond the individual perception
range and line of sight. It has been demonstrated that the
application of cooperative perception to V2X communication-
aided autonomous driving can increase perception accuracy
and transportation safety [12]–[14]. Recently, cooperative per-
ception has attracted significant attention from the research
community, A V technology development companies, and road
operators. Some recent studies proposed cost-effective and
efficient cooperation strategies to achieve good perception
performance for A Vs [2], [15], [16] while some other works
leveraged cooperative perception to improve connected and
automated vehicles systems and vehicle-roadside cooperation
technologies, prompting better autonomous driving [17]–[19].
arXiv:2304.11821v2  [cs.RO]  28 Feb 2024