V2X-ViT: Vehicle-to-Everything Cooperative
Perception with Vision Transformer
Runsheng Xu1⋆ , Hao Xiang 1⋆ , Zhengzhong Tu2⋆ , Xin Xia 1 ,
Ming-Hsuan Yang3,4 , and Jiaqi Ma 1 †
1 University of California, Los Angeles
2 University of Texas at Austin
3 Google Research
4 University of California, Merced
Abstract. In this paper, we investigate the application of Vehicle-to-
Everything (V2X) communication to improve the perception performance
of autonomous vehicles. We present a robust cooperative perception
framework with V2X communication using a novel vision Transformer.
Specifically, we build a holistic attention model, namely V2X-ViT, to ef-
fectively fuse information across on-road agents (i.e., vehicles and infras-
tructure). V2X-ViT consists of alternating layers of heterogeneous multi-
agent self-attention and multi-scale window self-attention, which cap-
tures inter-agent interaction and per-agent spatial relationships. These
key modules are designed in a unified Transformer architecture to han-
dle common V2X challenges, including asynchronous information shar-
ing, pose errors, and heterogeneity of V2X components. To validate our
approach, we create a large-scale V2X perception dataset using CARLA
and OpenCDA. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that V2X-
ViT sets new state-of-the-art performance for 3D object detection and
achieves robust performance even under harsh, noisy environments. The
code is available at https://github.com/DerrickXuNu/v2x-vit.
Keywords: V2X, Vehicle-to-Everything, Cooperative perception, Au-
tonomous driving, Transformer
1 Introduction
Perceiving the complex driving environment precisely is crucial to the safety
of autonomous vehicles (AVs). With recent advancements of deep learning, the
robustness of single-vehicle perception systems has demonstrated significant im-
provement in several tasks such as semantic segmentation [32,10], depth esti-
mation [54,11], and object detection and tracking [20,23,48,13]. Despite recent
advancements, challenges remain. Single-agent perception system tends to suffer
from occlusion and sparse sensor observation at a far distance, which can poten-
tially cause catastrophic consequences [50]. The cause of such a problem is that
⋆ Equal contribution. † Corresponding author: jiaqima@ucla.edu