V2X-DGW: Domain Generalization for Multi-agent Perception under
Adverse Weather Conditions
Baolu Li 1⋆, Jinlong Li 1⋆, Xinyu Liu 1, Runsheng Xu 2, Zhengzhong Tu 3, Jiacheng Guo 1,
Qin Zou 4, Xiaopeng Li 5, Hongkai Yu 1†
Abstract— Current LiDAR-based Vehicle-to-Everything
(V2X) multi-agent perception systems have shown the
significant success on 3D object detection. While these models
perform well in the trained clean weather, they struggle in
unseen adverse weather conditions with the domain gap. In this
paper, we propose a Domain Generalization based approach,
named V2X-DGW, for LiDAR-based 3D object detection
on multi-agent perception system under adverse weather
conditions. Our research aims to not only maintain favorable
multi-agent performance in the clean weather but also promote
the performance in the unseen adverse weather conditions
by learning only on the clean weather data. To realize the
Domain Generalization, we first introduce the Adaptive
Weather Augmentation (A W A) to mimic the unseen adverse
weather conditions, and then propose two alignments for
generalizable representation learning: Trust-region Weather-
invariant Alignment (TW A) and Agent-aware Contrastive
Alignment (ACA). To evaluate this research, we add Fog,
Rain, Snow conditions on two publicized multi-agent datasets
based on physics-based models, resulting in two new datasets:
OPV2V-w and V2XSet-w. Extensive experiments demonstrate
that our V2X-DGW achieved significant improvements
in the unseen adverse weathers. The code is available at
https://github.com/Baolu1998/V2X-DGW.
I. I NTRODUCTION
The advent of multi-agent perception systems has marked
a significant leap forward in surmounting the inherent lim-
itations of single-agent perception from the challenges of
perceiving range and occlusion [1], [2]. This paper uses the
Connected and Automated Vehicles (CA V) based cooper-
ative perception in autonomous driving as an example of
the multi-agent perception systems. Leveraging the Vehicle-
to-Everything (V2X) communication for the exchange of
LiDAR based point cloud data, these multi-agent systems
have demonstrated a substantial enhancement in 3D object
detection over the single-agent perception systems [3]–[10].
However, the LiDAR-based V2X multi-agent perception
systems under the adverse weather conditions (Fog, Rain,
Snow) [11] have not been studied and evaluated before.
So far as we know, all the current LiDAR-based V2X
multi-agent perception models [2], [5], [12] are trained on
the clean-weather data. In our experiments on the publicized
V2X cooperative perception dataset OPV2V [4], if we di-
rectly deploy these models (trained on clean weather) to the
unseen adverse weather conditions, their performance will
drop significantly, for example, AP@IoU=0.5 from 88.10 in
1Cleveland State University. 2Independent Researcher. 3Texas A&M
University. 4Wuhan University. 5University of Wisconsin-Madison. ⋆Equal
contribution. This research is partially supported by NSF 2215388 and
2343167. †Corresponding Author: h.yu19@csuohio.edu
(c) Rain
(a) Clean (b) Fog
(d) Snow
Fig. 1: Multi-agent perception system under adverse
weather. Three CA Vs’ LiDAR point clouds are highlighted
in Black, Orange and Green colors. We can discover the
reduced perception range (shrinked wave circles) and degra-
dation (highlighted by the blue arrows) for the point clouds
under adverse weather.
clean weather to 67.55 in fog weather. We discover and
summarize three specific challenges for the domain gap
between clean and adverse weather conditions of multi-agent
perception, as detailed below.
• Perception Range Reduction: As shown in Fig. 1,
the LiDAR’s perception range is reduced in the ad-
verse weather. The fog particles, raindrops, snowflakes
occasionally block the LiDAR’s line of sight causing
lossy data in the point cloud, so this dynamic occlusion
reduces the vehicle’s ability to perceive its surroundings
accurately.
• Point Cloud Degradation: As highlighted by the blue
arrows in Fig. 1, the LiDAR’s point cloud quality
is degraded. Severe weather conditions might change
the characteristics compared to clean weather, such as
optical attenuation in the atmosphere, surface reflectiv-
ity changes, dynamic occlusions. These factors reduce
the amount of effective signal returned to the LiDAR,
affecting the integrity and accuracy of the point cloud.
• Accumulated Damages on Perception: Intuitively, the
adverse weather conditions impair each agent’s percep-
tion, so the multi-agent perception system might have
accumulated damages [13] due to the agent-to-agent
information sharing.
To solve the above three challenges, this paper proposes
arXiv:2403.11371v6  [cs.CV]  19 Mar 2025