PROCEEDINGS OF THE IEEE, ACCEPTED IN AUGUST 2025 1
Vehicle-to-Everything Cooperative Perception for
Autonomous Driving
Tao Huang∗, Senior Member, IEEE, Jianan Liu∗, Xi Zhou ∗, Graduate Student Member, IEEE,
Dinh C. Nguyen, Member, IEEE, Mostafa Rahimi Azghadi, Senior Member, IEEE, Yuxuan Xia, Member, IEEE,
Qing-Long Han†, Fellow, IEEE, and Sumei Sun, Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Achieving fully autonomous driving with enhanced
safety and efficiency relies on vehicle-to-everything cooperative
perception, which enables vehicles to share perception data,
thereby enhancing situational awareness and overcoming the
limitations of the sensing ability of individual vehicles. Vehicle-
to-everything cooperative perception plays a crucial role in
extending the perception range, increasing detection accuracy,
and supporting more robust decision-making and control in
complex environments. This paper provides a comprehensive sur-
vey of recent developments in vehicle-to-everything cooperative
perception, introducing mathematical models that characterize
the perception process under different collaboration strategies.
Key techniques for enabling reliable perception sharing, such as
agent selection, data alignment, and feature fusion, are examined
in detail. In addition, major challenges are discussed, including
differences in agents and models, uncertainty in perception
outputs, and the impact of communication constraints such as
transmission delay and data loss. The paper concludes by outlin-
ing promising research directions, including privacy-preserving
artificial intelligence methods, collaborative intelligence, and
integrated sensing frameworks to support future advancements
in vehicle-to-everything cooperative perception.
Index Terms—Autonomous driving; connected and automated
vehicles; cooperative perception; vehicle-to-everything commu-
nication; segmentation; object detection; multi-object tracking;
data fusion; deep learning; artificial intelligence.
∗Equal contribution.†Corresponding author.
T. Huang, X. Zhou, and M. R. Azghadi are with the Col-
lege of Science and Engineering, James Cook University, Cairns,
QLD 4870, Australia. Email: tao.huang1@jcu.edu.au, xi.zhou@jcu.edu.au,
mostafa.rahimiazghadi@jcu.edu.au.
J. Liu is with Momoni AI, Gothenburg, 40017, Sweden. Email:
jianan.liu@momoniai.org.
Dinh C. Nguyen is with the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, University of Alabama in Huntsville, Huntsville, AL 35899,
USA. Email: dinh.nguyen@uah.edu.
Yuxuan Xia is with the Department of Automation and Intelligent Sens-
ing, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai 200240, China. Email: yux-
uan.xia@sjtu.edu.cn.
Q.-L. Han is with the School of Engineering, Swinburne University of
Technology, Melbourne, VIC 3122, Australia. Email: qhan@swin.edu.au.
S. Sun is with the Institute for Infocomm Research, Agency for Sci-
ence, Technology and Research (A*STAR), Singapore 138632. Email:
sunsm@i2r.a-star.edu.sg.
This article has been accepted for publication in Proceedings of the IEEE .
DOI: 10.1109/JPROC.2025.3600903
© 2025 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. Permission from
IEEE must be obtained for all other uses, in any current or future media,
including reprinting/republishing this material for advertising or promotional
purposes, creating new collective works, for resale or redistribution to servers
or lists, or reuse of any copyrighted component of this work in other works.
I. I NTRODUCTION
C
Ooperative Perception (CP), enabled by Vehicle-to-
Everything (V2X) communication [1], has emerged as
a promising paradigm for enhancing situational awareness in
autonomous driving. By enabling vehicles to exchange percep-
tion data with surrounding vehicles, infrastructure, pedestrians,
and networks, CP extends visibility beyond line-of-sight limi-
tations and enhances decision-making in complex scenarios,
such as intersections and lane changes. This collaborative
approach addresses the fundamental limitations of single-
vehicle perception, which depends solely on onboard sensors
such as cameras, LiDAR, and radar.
In a full-stack autonomous driving system, core compo-
nents, including perception, localization, planning, control, and
system integration, must operate cohesively. V2X-based CP
enhances each of these layers by enabling the exchange of
sensory and positional data among connected agents 1. At the
perception level, shared information allows the detection of
objects beyond a vehicles sensing range, improving overall ac-
curacy. In localization, data from neighboring agents comple-
ments Global Positioning System (GPS) signals, particularly
in areas with poor satellite coverage. For planning, real-time
awareness of nearby trajectories enables more adaptive and
informed decisions. These improvements also benefit the con-
trol layer, where enhanced situational awareness leads to more
precise execution. Finally, system integration is strengthened
through reduced reliance on individual sensors, enhancing the
platforms robustness and scalability. Collectively, V2X CP im-
proves the intelligence and resilience of autonomous systems,
supporting their safe deployment in real-world scenarios.
Fig. 1 illustrates an urban scenario comparing autonomous
driving with and without CP. In Fig. 1a, each vehicle operates
independently. Each vehicle’s limited sensing range, combined
with obstructions, leads to unreliable detection of distant or
occluded objects [2]. In contrast, Fig. 1b depicts vehicles and
infrastructure exchanging information via V2X communica-
tion, resulting in a more comprehensive understanding of the
environment and the elimination of blind spots. A specific case
is shown in Fig. 2, where a white hatchback’s front view is
blocked by a parked food truck, preventing it from detecting a
child running into the street. This scenario, also shown in Fig.
2a, poses a serious collision risk if the vehicle cannot respond
in time. With CP enabled, the blue Connected Autonomous
1Agents refer to vehicles and infrastructure equipped with sensing and
communication capabilities.
arXiv:2310.03525v5  [cs.CV]  2 Sep 2025