WaveComm: Lightweight Communication for Collaborative Perception
via Wavelet Feature Distillation
Erdemt Bao 1∗†, Jin Yang 2∗‡
Abstract— In multi-agent collaborative sensing systems, sub-
stantial communication overhead from information exchange
significantly limits scalability and real-time performance, es-
pecially in bandwidth-constrained environments. This often
results in degraded performance and reduced reliability. To
address this challenge, we propose WaveComm, a wavelet-
based communication framework that drastically reduces trans-
mission loads while preserving sensing performance in low-
bandwidth scenarios. The core innovation of WaveComm lies
in decomposing feature maps using Discrete Wavelet Transform
(DWT), transmitting only compact low-frequency components
to minimize communication overhead. High-frequency details
are omitted, and their effects are reconstructed at the receiver
side using a lightweight generator. A Multi-Scale Distillation
(MSD) Loss is employed to optimize the reconstruction quality
across pixel, structural, semantic, and distributional levels. Ex-
periments on the OPV2V and DAIR-V2X datasets for LiDAR-
based and camera-based perception tasks demonstrate that
WaveComm maintains state-of-the-art performance even when
the communication volume is reduced to 86.3% and 87.0%
of the original, respectively. Compared to existing approaches,
WaveComm achieves competitive improvements in both com-
munication efficiency and perception accuracy. Ablation studies
further validate the effectiveness of its key components.
I. INTRODUCTION
Collaborative perception enables multiple agents to over-
come inherent limitations of single viewpoints (e.g., occlu-
sion, restricted sensing range) by exchanging complemen-
tary information through communication. This paradigm has
been widely applied in connected and automated vehicles
(CA Vs), supported by Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) and vehicle-
to-infrastructure (V2I) technologies, significantly enhancing
safety and efficiency in complex traffic environments [1], [2],
[3].
However, the benefits of collaboration come at the cost
of substantial communication overhead. Raw sensor sharing
or dense feature map exchange generates extremely high
bandwidth demands, which are impractical in real-world
deployments [4], [5]. Even compression-oriented strategies
(e.g., feature sparsification [6], learned transmission [7])
face trade-offs. They often lead to excessive bandwidth
consumption under dense traffic, and transmit redundant or
1School of Mechanical Science and Engineering, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China.
baoerdemt366@gmail.com
2National Key Laboratory of Human-Machine Hybrid Augmented Intel-
ligence, and Institute of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, Xi’an Jiaotong
University, Shaanxi 710049, China.jin.y.hust@gmail.com
*These authors contributed equally to this work.
†Corresponding author. ‡Project Leader.
GitHub page:https://github.com/erdemtbao/WaveComm
Fequency Domain
low frequency
Spatial Domain
selection
compression
…
Sender
Feature 
Fusion
Receiver
/
Sender
high frequency
or
(a)
(b)
 Reconstruction
Receiver
Feature 
Fusion
Fig. 1. Feature transmission methods in collaborative perception. (a) Spatial
domain methods: The sender vehicle encodes data, applies compression or
selection, and transmits it to the receiver vehicle, which performs feature
fusion and decoding. (b) Frequency domain methods: The sender encodes
data into low- and high-frequency components, primarily transmitting low-
frequency data. The receiver reconstructs the original features from these
components, followed by feature fusion and decoding.
noisy information that does not contribute to downstream
tasks, thereby reducing system efficiency.
A key limitation of existing approaches [6], [7], [8], [9],
[10] is that they operate solely in the spatial domain, where
redundancy is reduced by compressing or selecting feature
maps, as shown in Figure 1(a). While such strategies can re-
duce redundancy, they overlook the inherent frequency struc-
ture of perceptual signals. In the frequency domain, signals
naturally decompose into complementary components: low-
frequency bands that capture global semantics and structural
contexts, and high-frequency bands that provide some details
such as edges and textures. This inherent separation offers
a principled way to design communication schemes that are
both compact and information-preserving.
Based on this insight, we propose WaveComm, a wavelet-
based collaborative perception framework that achieves com-
munication efficiency by explicitly operating in the spatial
frequency domain, similar in spirit to JPEG-style frequency-
domain processing, as illustrated in Figure 1(b). Specifically,
WaveComm decomposes intermediate features using the Dis-
crete Wavelet Transform (DWT) and transmits only the com-
pact low-frequency components. Although high-frequency
arXiv:2603.13365v1  [cs.CV]  9 Mar 2026