WhisperNet: A Scalable Solution for Bandwidth-Efficient Collaboration
Gong Chen1 Chaokun Zhang2* Xinyan Zhao2
1School of Computer Science and Technology, Tianjin University
2School of Cybersecurity, Tianjin University
Abstract
Collaborative perception is vital for autonomous driv-
ing yet remains constrained by tight communication bud-
gets. Earlier work reduced bandwidth by compressing full
feature maps with fixed-rate encoders, which adapts poorly
to a changing environment, and it further evolved into spa-
tial selection methods that improve efficiency by focusing on
salient regions, but this object-centric approach often sac-
rifices global context, weakening holistic scene understand-
ing. To overcome these limitations, we introduce Whisper-
Net, a bandwidth-aware framework that proposes a novel,
receiver-centric paradigm for global coordination across
agents. Senders generate lightweight saliency metadata,
while the receiver formulates a global request plan that dy-
namically budgets feature contributions across agents and
features, retrieving only the most informative features. A
collaborative feature routing module then aligns related
messages before fusion to ensure structural consistency. Ex-
tensive experiments show that WhisperNet achieves state-
of-the-art performance, improving AP@0.7 on OPV2V by
2.4% with only 0.5% of the communication cost. As a plug-
and-play component, it boosts strong baselines with merely
5% of full bandwidth while maintaining robustness under
localization noise. These results demonstrate that globally-
coordinated allocation across what and where to share is
the key to achieving efficient collaborative perception.
1. Introduction
Collaborative perception (CP) enhances autonomous driv-
ing safety through vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communi-
cation [12, 25] to overcome single-agent limitations like oc-
clusions [15, 32]. However, these benefits incur substantial
communication overhead, as transmitting raw sensor data or
high-dimensional features [4] in real-time consumes a vast
amount of bandwidth. This bandwidth constraint has be-
come a critical bottleneck, hindering the large-scale deploy-
ment of CP [7, 19]. Therefore, designing communication-
*Corresponding author.
Secondary MarginalPrimary
Cav 1Cav 2
Channel Split
F-Cooper
V2X-ViT
V2VNet
Figure 1. Visualization of different channel groups. The propor-
tional table in the figure represents the model’s primary (Orange),
secondary (Yellow), and marginal (Green) channels.
efficient methods that maintain high perception accuracy
under strict bandwidth budgets remains a challenge.
To mitigate bandwidth, prior work mainly follows two
strategies. First,feature compression & reconstruction
methods[11, 23] encode the full feature map into a com-
pact latent and decode it at the receiver; however, fixed-rate
encoders or static codebooks are inflexible, failing to adapt
to dynamic bandwidth and varying scene complexity [36],
thus enforcing a fidelity-bandwidth compromise. To gain
more flexibility,spatial selection methods[10, 35] are pro-
posed to reduce bandwidth by transmitting only salient spa-
tial features. For instance, methods like Where2comm [10]
and CoRA [2] prioritize foreground objects.
However, while spatial-only methods optimize where to
communicate, they still transmit full, redundant channels.
Even recent filtering methods [33] may not fully exploit
this redundancy on a global, system-wide scale. This re-
veals a critical gap: existing methods have overlooked the
significant redundancy present in the channel dimension.
This gap motivates our investigation into the channel prop-
erties. As shown in Fig. 1, channels can be qualitatively
grouped into three categories: primary channels, which are
This CVPR paper is the Open Access version, provided by the Computer Vision Foundation.
 Except for this watermark, it is identical to the accepted version;
the final published version of the proceedings is available on IEEE Xplore.
32154
